s that the democracy was opposed to the meeting so near the date of the constituent assembly representatives from the front from the union of zemstvos the peasants union union of cossack armies union of officers knights of st . george death battalions protesting . . . . see notes and explanations . the council of the russian republic was one chorus of disapproval . the entire machinery set up by the russian revolution of march functioned to block the congress of soviets . . . . on the other hand was the shapeless will of the proletariatthe workmen common soldiers and poor peasants . many local soviets were already bolshevik then there were the organisations of the industrial workers the fabritchnozavodskiye comitieti factoryshop committees and the insurgent army and fleet organisations . in some places the people prevented from electing their regular soviet delegates held rump meetings and chose one of their number to go to petrograd . in others they smashed the old obstructionist committees and formed new on
mber then until october and now it was fixed for november 10th . the provisional government suggested two representativesgeneral alexeyev reactionary military man and terestchenko minister of foreign affairs . the soviets chose skobeliev to speak for them and drew up a manifesto the famous nakaz see app . ii sect . 5 instructions . the provisional government objected to skobeliev and his nakaz the allied ambassadors protested and finally bonar law in the british house of commons in answer to a question responded coldly as far as i know the paris conference will not discuss the aims of the war at all but only the methods of conducting it . . . . at this the conservative russian press was jubilant and the bolsheviki cried see where the compromising tactics of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries have led them along a thousand miles of front the millions of men in russias armies stirred like the sea rising pouring into the capital their hundreds upon hundreds of delegations crying peace peace i went acro
threw upon the shoulders of the army committees most of the work of the quartermasters department and in some cases even the command of troops . 8 . fleet committees . the corresponding organisations in the navy . central committees in the spring and summer of 1917 allrussian conventions of every sort of organisation were held at petrograd . there were national congresses of workers soldiers and peasants soviets trade unions factoryshop committees army and fleet committeesbesides every branch of the military and naval service cooperatives nationalities etc . each of these conventions elected a central committee or a central executive committee to guard its particular interests at the seat of government . as the provisional government grew weaker these central committees were forced to assume more and more administrative powers . the most important central committees mentioned in this book are union of unions . during the revolution of 1905 professor miliukov and other liberals established unions of profession
 . after the bolshevik coup detat yedinstvo disappeared . 5 . socialist revolutionary party . called essaires from the initials of their name . originally the revolutionary party of the peasants the party of the fighting organisationsthe terrorists . after the march revolution it was joined by many who had never been socialists . at that time it stood for the abolition of private property in land only the owners to be compensated in some fashion . finally the increasing revolutionary feeling of peasants forced the essaires to abandon the compensation clause and led to the younger and more fiery intellectuals breaking off from the main party in the fall of 1917 and forming a new party the left socialist revolutionary party . the essaires who were afterward always called by the radical groups right socialist revolutionaries adopted the political attitude of the mensheviki and worked together with them . they finally came to represent the wealthier peasants the intellectuals and the politically uneducated popula
the socialists of europe socalled because of their participation in the international conference held at zimmerwald switzerland in 1915 lands have prepared the awakening of the conscience of the democratic masses . . . . between these two groups the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries wavered irresistibly forced to the left by the pressure of the rising dissatisfaction of the masses . deep hostility divided the chamber into irreconcilable groups . this was the situation when the longawaited announcement of the allied conference in paris brought up the burning question of foreign policy . . . . theoretically all socialist parties in russia were in favour of the earliest possible peace on democratic terms . as long ago as may 1917 the petrograd soviet then under control of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionarieshad proclaimed the famous russian peaceconditions . they had demanded that the allies hold a conference to discuss waraims . this conference had been promised for august then postponed until se
ituent assembly before the november revolution why did they disperse it by force of arms afterward and if the bourgeoisie opposed the constituent assembly until the danger of bolshevism became apparent why did they champion it afterward these and many other questions cannot be answered here . in another volume kornilov to brestlitovsk i trace the course of the revolution up to and including the german peace . there i explain the origin and functions of the revolutionary organisations the evolution of popular sentiment the dissolution of the constituent assembly the structure of the soviet state and the course and outcome of the brest litovsk negotiations . in considering the rise of the bolsheviki it is necessary to understand that russian economic life and the russian army were not disorganised on november 7th 1917 but many months before as the logical result of a process which began as far back as 1915 . the corrupt reactionaries in control of the tsars court deliberately undertook to wreck russia in order 
called because of their participation in the international conference held at zimmerwald switzerland in 1915 lands have prepared the awakening of the conscience of the democratic masses . . . . between these two groups the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries wavered irresistibly forced to the left by the pressure of the rising dissatisfaction of the masses . deep hostility divided the chamber into irreconcilable groups . this was the situation when the longawaited announcement of the allied conference in paris brought up the burning question of foreign policy . . . . theoretically all socialist parties in russia were in favour of the earliest possible peace on democratic terms . as long ago as may 1917 the petrograd soviet then under control of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionarieshad proclaimed the famous russian peaceconditions . they had demanded that the allies hold a conference to discuss waraims . this conference had been promised for august then postponed until september then until october 
omes the subject of bargaining between the different imperialist groups . . . . you are trying to impose upon the russian people a policy dictated by the interests of the bourgeoisie . the question of peace should be raised without delay . . . . you will see then that not in vain has been the work of those whom you call german agents of those zimmerwaldists who in all the members of the revoloutionary internationalist wing of the socialists of europe socalled because of their participation in the international conference held at zimmerwald switzerland in 1915 lands have prepared the awakening of the conscience of the democratic masses . . . . between these two groups the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries wavered irresistibly forced to the left by the pressure of the rising dissatisfaction of the masses . deep hostility divided the chamber into irreconcilable groups . this was the situation when the longawaited announcement of the allied conference in paris brought up the burning question of foreign pol
with the prospect of retirement on a comfortable pension and possibly the cross of st . anne . . . . there is the story of senator sokolov who in full tide of revolution came to a meeting of the senate one day in civilian clothes and was not admitted because he did not wear the prescribed livery of the tsars service it was against this background of a whole nation in ferment and disintegration that the pageant of the rising of the russian masses unrolled . . . . chapter ii the coming storm in september general kornilov marched on petrograd to make himself military dictator of russia . behind him was suddenly revealed the mailed fist of the bourgeoisie boldly attempting to crush the revolution . some of the socialist ministers were implicated even kerensky was under suspicion . see app . ii sect . 1 savinkov summoned to explain to the central committee of his party the socialist revolutionaries refused and was expelled . kornilov was arrested by the soldiers committees . generals were dismissed ministers suspe
alist and militaristic . its leaders were nobles and great landowners like kaledin kornilov generals dutov karaulov and bardizhe and it was backed by the powerful merchants and bankers of moscow . . . . old russia was rapidly breaking up . in ukraine in finland poland white russia the nationalist movements gathered strength and became bolder . the local governments controlled by the propertied classes claimed autonomy refusing to obey orders from petrograd . at helsingfors the finnish senate declined to loan money to the provisional government declared finland autonomous and demanded the withdrawal of russian troops . the bourgeois rada at kiev extended the boundaries of ukraine until they included all the richest agricultural lands of south russia as far east as the urals and began the formation of a national army . premier vinnitchenko hinted at a separate peace with germanyand the provisional government was helpless . siberia the caucasus demanded separate constituent assemblies . and in all these countrie
nd workers control of industry and a government of the workingclass . in september 1917 matters reached a crisis . against the overwhelming sentiment of the country kerensky and the moderate socialists succeeded in establishing a government of coalition with the propertied classes and as a result the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries lost the confidence of the people forever . an article in rabotchi put workers way about the middle of october entitled the socialist ministers expressed the feeling of the masses of the people against the moderate socialists here is a list of their services .see app . i sect . 3 tseretelli disarmed the workmen with the assistance of general polovtsev checkmated the revolutionary soldiers and approved of capital punishment in the army . skobeliev commenced by trying to tax the capitalists 100 of their profits and finishedand finished by an attempt to dissolve the workers committees in the shops and factories . avksentiev put several hundred peasants in prison members of th
ransportation collapsed . 7 . army committees . the army committees were formed by the soldiers at the front to combat the reactionary influence of the old regime officers . every company regiment brigade division and corps had its committee over all of which was elected the army committee . the central army committee cooperated with the general staff . the administrative breakdown in the army incident upon the revolution threw upon the shoulders of the army committees most of the work of the quartermasters department and in some cases even the command of troops . 8 . fleet committees . the corresponding organisations in the navy . central committees in the spring and summer of 1917 allrussian conventions of every sort of organisation were held at petrograd . there were national congresses of workers soldiers and peasants soviets trade unions factoryshop committees army and fleet committeesbesides every branch of the military and naval service cooperatives nationalities etc . each of these conventions elected
p lianozov konovalov . 3 . populist socialists or trudoviki labour group . numerically a small party composed of cautious intellectuals the leaders of the cooperative societies and conservative peasants . professing to be socialists the populists really supported the interests of the petty bourgeoisieclerks shopkeepers etc . by direct descent inheritors of the compromising tradition of the labour group in the fourth imperial duma which was composed largely of peasant representatives . kerensky was the leader of the trudoviki in the imperial duma when the revolution of march 1917 broke out . the populist socialists are a nationalistic party . their representatives in this book are peshekhanov tchaikovsky . 4 . russian social democratic labour party . originally marxian socialists . at a party congress held in 1903 the party split on the question of tactics into two factionsthe majority bolshinstvo and the minority menshinstvo . from this sprang the names bolsheviki and menshevikimembers of the majority and mem
uded from the country as undesirable citizens and in some cases men who returned from abroad to their villages were prosecuted and imprisoned for revolutionary acts committed in 1905 . to the multiform discontent of the people the moderate socialists had one answer wait for the constituent assembly which is to meet in december . but the masses were not satisfied with that . the constituent assembly was all well and good but there were certain definite things for which the russian revolution had been made and for which the revolutionary martyrs rotted in their stark brotherhood grave on mars field that must be achieved constituent assembly or no constituent assembly peace land and workers control of industry . the constituent assembly had been postponed and postponedwould probably be postponed again until the people were calm enoughperhaps to modify their demands at any rate here were eight months of the revolution gone and little enough to show for it . . . . meanwhile the soldiers began to solve the peace qu
he footnotes are included at the end of each chapter while the appendix no . and section are referred to in the text in parentheses the appendices following the book text . liberal use is made of italics and these have been indicated by bracketing italic text with the underscore character . line length is 7072 characters . a number of graphics occur in the text these are referred to by number as graphic etc . the figures themselves are in a separate file . to facilitate conversion to a wordprocessing format an attempt has been made to end each line with a space . graphics there are 17 graphic figures in the text . these are indicated by a reference to the page number in the original book . these figures are available elsewhere www .geocities .comnorm90 where images of the pages involved are available in tiff or pdf format . these are page 33 46 49 96 104 166 184 205 224 227 251 254 276 279 281 287 354 epilogue the original book of this text had a number of newspaper clipings from the 1920s and 1930s included 
idium is a presiding committee composed of representatives of the groups and political factions represented in the assembly in proportion to their numbers . the presidium arranges the order of business and its members can be called upon by the president to take the chair pro tem . each question vopros is stated in a general way and then debated and at the close of the debate resolutions are submitted by the different factions and each one voted on separately . the order of business can be and usually is smashed to pieces in the first half hour . on the plea of emergency which the crowd almost always grants anybody from the floor can get up and say anything on any subject . the crowd controls the meeting practically the only functions of the speaker being to keep order by ringing a little bell and to recognise speakers . almost all the real work of the session is done in caucuses of the different groups and political factions which almost always cast their votes in a body and are represented by floorleaders . 
 on the surface of revolutionary fires dormant all those months . only an spontaneous massmovement could bring about the allrussian congress of soviets . . . . day after day the bolshevik orators toured the barracks and factories violently denouncing this government of civil war . one sunday we went on a topheavy steam tram that lumbered through oceans of mud between stark factories and immense churches to obukhovsky zavod a government munitionsplant out on the schlsselburg prospekt . the meeting took place between the gaunt brick walls of a huge unfinished building ten thousand blackclothed men and women packed around a scaffolding draped in red people heaped on piles of lumber and bricks perched high upon shadowy girders intent and thundervoiced . through the dull heavy sky now and again burst the sun flooding reddish light through the skeleton windows upon the mass of simple faces upturned to us . lunatcharsky a slight studentlike figure with the sensitive face of an artist was telling why the power must b
v babuschka breshkovskaya . a . left socialist revolutionaries . although theoretically sharing the bolshevik programme of dictatorship of the workingclass at first were reluctant to follow the ruthless bolshevik tactics . however the left socialist revolutionaries remained in the soviet government sharing the cabinet portfolios especially that of agriculture . they withdrew from the government several times but always returned . as the peasants left the ranks of the essaires in increasing numbers they joined the left socialist revolutionary party which became the great peasant party supporting the soviet government standing for confiscation without compensation of the great landed estates and their disposition by the peasants themselves . among the leaders spiridonova karelin kamkov kalagayev . b . maximalists . an offshoot of the socialist revolutionary party in the revolution of 1905 when it was a powerful peasant movement demanding the immediate application of the maximum socialist programme . now an insi
these groups were also attacked by the propertied classes but their power of resistance was crippled by their theories . roughly the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries believed that russia was not economically ripe for a social revolutionthat only a political revolution was possible . according to their interpretation the russian masses were not educated enough to take over the power any attempt to do so would inevitably bring on a reaction by means of which some ruthless opportunist might restore the old rgime . and so it followed that when the moderate socialists were forced to assume the power they were afraid to use it . they believed that russia must pass through the stages of political and economic development known to western europe and emerge at last with the rest of the world into fullfledged socialism . naturally therefore they agreed with the propertied classes that russia must first be a parliamentary statethough with some improvements on the western democracies . as a consequence they insis
ion and distribution into the hands of the workers . after the march revolution the cooperatives spread rapidly and were dominated by populist socialists mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries and acted as a conservative political force until the bolshevik revolution . however it was the cooperatives which fed russia when the old structure of commerce and transportation collapsed . 7 . army committees . the army committees were formed by the soldiers at the front to combat the reactionary influence of the old regime officers . every company regiment brigade division and corps had its committee over all of which was elected the army committee . the central army committee cooperated with the general staff . the administrative breakdown in the army incident upon the revolution threw upon the shoulders of the army committees most of the work of the quartermasters department and in some cases even the command of troops . 8 . fleet committees . the corresponding organisations in the navy . central committees in t
uld be had bread thickly buttered and endless glasses of tea . . . . in the south wing on the second floor was the great hall of meetings the former ballroom of the institute . a lofty white room lighted by glazedwhite chandeliers holding hundreds of ornate electric bulbs and divided by two rows of massive columns at one end a dais flanked with two tall manybranched light standards and a gold frame behind from which the imperial portrait had been cut . here on festal occasions had been banked brilliant military and ecclesiastical uniforms a setting for grand duchesses . . . . just across the hall outside was the office of the credentials committee for the congress of soviets . i stood there watching the new delegates come inburly bearded soldiers workmen in black blouses a few longhaired peasants . the girl in chargea member of plekhanovs yedinstvo groupsmiled contemptuously . these are see notes and explanations very different people from the delegates to the first siezd congress she remarked . see how rough
e bursting into tears at the end . the assembly heard him coldly interrupting with ironical remarks . smolny institute headquarters of the tsayeekah and of the petrograd soviet lay miles out on the edge of the city beside the wide neva . i went there on a streetcar moving snaillike with a groaning noise through the cobbled muddy streets and jammed with people . at the end of the line rose the graceful smokeblue cupolas of smolny convent outlined in dull gold beautiful and beside it the great barracks like faade of smolny institute two hundred yards long and three lofty stories high the imperial arms carved hugely in stone still insolent over the entrance . . . . under the old rgime a famous conventschool for the daughters of the russian nobility patronised by the tsarina herself the institute had been taken over by the revolutionary organisations of workers and soldiers . within were more than a hundred huge rooms white and bare on their doors enamelled plaques still informing the passerby that within was lad
the war the zemstvos gradually took over the entire feeding and clothing of the russian army as well as the buying from foreign countries and work among the soldiers generally corresponding to the work of the american y . m . c . a . at the front . after the march revolution the zemstvos were democratized with a view to making them the organs of local government in the rural districts . but like the city dumas they could not compete with the soviets . 6 . cooperatives . these were the workers and peasants consumers cooperative societies which had several million members all over russia before the revolution . founded by liberals and moderate socialists the cooperative movement was not supported by the revolutionary socialist groups because it was a substitute for the complete transference of means of production and distribution into the hands of the workers . after the march revolution the cooperatives spread rapidly and were dominated by populist socialists mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries and acted 
te socialists succeeded in establishing a government of coalition with the propertied classes and as a result the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries lost the confidence of the people forever . an article in rabotchi put workers way about the middle of october entitled the socialist ministers expressed the feeling of the masses of the people against the moderate socialists here is a list of their services .see app . i sect . 3 tseretelli disarmed the workmen with the assistance of general polovtsev checkmated the revolutionary soldiers and approved of capital punishment in the army . skobeliev commenced by trying to tax the capitalists 100 of their profits and finishedand finished by an attempt to dissolve the workers committees in the shops and factories . avksentiev put several hundred peasants in prison members of the land committees and suppressed dozens of workers and soldiers newspapers . tchernov signed the imperial manifest ordering the dissolution of the finnish diet . savinkov concluded an open
april because it declared itself in favour of allied imperialistic aims including the imperialistic aims of the tsars government . as the revolution became more and more a social economic revolution the cadets grew more and more conservative . its representatives in this book are miliukov vinaver shatsky . 2a . group of public men . after the cadets had become unpopular through their relations with the kornilov counterrevolution the group of public men was formed in moscow . delegates from the group of public men were given portfolios in the last kerensky cabinet . the group declared itself nonpartisan although its intellectual leaders were men like rodzianko and shulgin . it was composed of the more modern bankers merchants and manufacturers who were intelligent enough to realise that the soviets must be fought by their own weaponeconomic organisation . typical of the group lianozov konovalov . 3 . populist socialists or trudoviki labour group . numerically a small party composed of cautious intellectuals th
sack armies and to declare illegal the newlyformed cossack section of the soviets . . . . in the first part of october a cossack delegation called upon kerensky arrogantly insisting that the charges against kaledin be dropped and reproaching the ministerpresident for yielding to the soviets . kerensky agreed to let kaledin alone and then is reported to have said in the eyes of the soviet leaders i am a despot and a tyrant . . . . as for the provisional government not only does it not depend upon the soviets but it considers it regrettable that they exist at all . at the same time another cossack mission called upon the british ambassador treating with him boldly as representatives of the free cossack people . in the don something very like a cossack republic had been established . the kuban declared itself an independent cossack state . the soviets of rostovondon and yekaterinburg were dispersed by armed cossacks and the headquarters of the coal miners union at kharkov raided . in all its manifestations the c
culous goodnature of the russian crowd . . . . of course all the theatres were going every night including sundays . karsavina appeared in a new ballet at the marinsky all danceloving russia coming to see her . shaliapin was singing . at the alexandrinsky they were reviving meyerholds production of tolstoys death of ivan the terrible and at that performance i remember noticing a student of the imperial school of pages in his dress uniform who stood up correctly between the acts and faced the empty imperial box with its eagles all erased . . . . the krivoye zerkalo staged a sumptuous version of schnitzlers reigen . although the hermitage and other picture galleries had been evacuated to moscow there were weekly exhibitions of paintings . hordes of the female intelligentzia went to hear lectures on art literature and the easy philosophies . it was a particularly active season for theosophists . and the salvation army admitted to russia for the first time in history plastered the walls with announcements of gosp
nople or is it free russia is it the democracy or is it the capitalist plunderers if you can prove to me that i am defending the revolution then ill go out and fight without capital punishment to force me . when the land belongs to the peasants and the factories to the workers and the power to the soviets then well know we have something to fight for and well fight for it in the barracks the factories on the streetcorners end less soldier speakers all clamouring for an end to the war declaring that if the government did not make an energetic effort to get peace the army would leave the trenches and go home . the spokesman for the eighth army we are weak we have only a few men left in each company . they must give us food and boots and reinforcements or soon there will be left only empty trenches . peace or supplies . . . either let the government end the war or support the army . . . . for the fortysixth siberian artillery the officers will not work with our committees they betray us to the enemy they apply t
ed factory workers of russia . the red guards were first formed during the revolution of 1905 and sprang into existence again in the days of march 1917 when a force was needed to keep order in the city . at that time they were armed and all efforts of the provisional government to disarm them were more or less unsuccessful . at every great crisis in the revolution the red guards appeared on the streets untrained and undisciplined but full of revolutionary zeal . white guards . bourgeois volunteers who emerged in the last stages of the revolution to defend private property from the bolshevik attempt to abolish it . a great many of them were university students . tekhintsi . the socalled savage division in the army made up of mohametan tribesmen from central asia and personally devoted to general kornilov . the tekhintsi were noted for their blind obedience and their savage cruelty in warfare . death battalions . or shock battalions . the womens battalion is known to the world as the death battalion but there w
om the conservative mensheviki and opposed to the dictatorship of the workingclass advocated by the bolsheviki . trotzky was long a member of this group . among their leaders martov martinov . c . bolsheviki . now call themselves the communist party in order to emphasise their complete separation from the tradition of moderate or parliamentary socialism which dominates the mensheviki and the socalled majority socialists in all countries . the bolsheviki proposed immediate proletarian insurrection and seizure of the reins of government in order to hasten the coming of socialism by forcibly taking over industry land natural resources and financial institutions . this party expresses the desires chiefly of the factory workers but also of a large section of the poor peasants . the name bolshevik can not be translated by maximalist . the maximalists are a separate group . see paragraph 5b . among the leaders lenin trotzky lunatcharsky . d . united social democrats internationalists . also called the novaya zhizn n
 the bolsheviki to deny the rumours . potressov in the menshevik dien day published a sensational story accompanied by a map which professed to reveal the secret bolshevik plan of campaign . as if by magic the walls were covered with warnings see app . ii sect . 10 proclamations appeals from the central committees of the moderate and conservative factions and the tsayeekah denouncing any demonstrations imploring the workers and soldiers not to listen to agitators . for instance this from the military section of the socialist revolutionary party again rumours are spreading around the town of an intended vystuplennie . what is the source of these rumours what organisation authorises these agitators who preach insurrection the bolsheviki to a question addressed to them in the tsayeekah denied that they have anything to do with it . . . . but these rumours themselves carry with them a great danger . it may easily happen that not taking into consideration the state of mind of the majority of the workers soldiers a
ors . the peasants soviets remained still conservative because in the sluggish rural districts political consciousness developed slowly and the socialist revolutionary party had been for a generation the party which had agitated among the peasants . . . . but even among the peasants a revolutionary wing was forming . it showed itself clearly in october when the left wing of the socialist revolutionaries split off and formed a new political faction the left socialist revolutionaries . at the same time there were signs everywhere that the forces of reaction were gaining confidence .see app . i sect . 5 at the troitsky farce theatre in petrograd for example a burlesque called sins of the tsar was interrupted by a group of monarchists who threatened to lynch the actors for insulting the emperor . certain newspapers began to sigh for a russian napoleon . it was the usual thing among bourgeois intelligentzia to refer to the soviets of workers deputies rabotchikh deputatov as sabatchikh deputatovdogs deputies . on o
 said publicly must we pay with riga the price of bringing the country to a sense of its duty see kornilov to brestlitvosk by john reed . boni and liveright n .y . 1919 to americans it is incredible that the class war should develop to such a pitch . but i have personally met officers on the northern front who frankly preferred military disaster to cooperation with the soldiers committees . the secretary of the petrograd branch of the cadet party told me that the breakdown of the countrys economic life was part of a campaign to discredit the revolution . an allied diplomat whose name i promised not to mention confirmed this from his own knowledge . i know of certain coalmines near kharkov which were fired and flooded by their owners of textile factories at moscow whose engineers put the machinery out of order when they left of railroad officials caught by the workers in the act of crippling locomotives . . . . a large section of the propertied classes preferred the germans to the revolutioneven to the provisi
s well see that you get your seats . . . . rabotchi i soldat said the attention of delegates to the new allrussian congress is called to attempts of certain members of the organising committee to break up the congress by asserting that it will not take place and that delegates had better leave petrograd . . . . pay no attention to these lies . . . . great days are coming . . . . it was evident that a quorum would not come together by november 2 so the opening of the congress was postponed to the 7th . but the whole country was now aroused and the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries realising that they were defeated suddenly changed their tactics and began to wire frantically to their provincial organisations to elect as many moderate socialist delegates as possible . at the same time the executive committee of the peasants soviets issued an emergency call for a peasants congress to meet december 13th and offset whatever action the workers and soldiers might take . . . what would the bolsheviki do rumours
ant moderate socialist groups the oborontsi see app . i sect . 1 mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries who supported the provisional government of kerensky . on october 14th the official organ of the moderate socialists said the drama of revolution has two acts the destruction of the old rgime and the creation of the new one . the first act has lasted long enough . now it is time to go on to the second and to play it as rapidly as possible . as a great revolutionist put it let us hasten friends to terminate the revolution . he who makes it last too long will not gather the fruits . . . . among the worker soldier and peasant masses however there was a stubborn feeling that the first act was not yet played out . on the front the army committees were always running foul of officers who could not get used to treating their men like human beings in the rear the land committees elected by the peasants were being jailed for trying to carry out government regulations concerning the land and the workmen see app . i
ative powers . the most important central committees mentioned in this book are union of unions . during the revolution of 1905 professor miliukov and other liberals established unions of professional mendoctors lawyers physicians etc . these were united under one central organisation the union of unions . in 1905 the union of unions acted with the revolutionary democracy in 1917 however the union of unions opposed the bolshevik uprising and united the government employees who went on strike against the authority of the soviets . tsayeekah . allrussian central executive committee of the soviets of workers and soldiers deputies . so called from the initials of its name . tsentroflot . centrefleetthe central fleet committee . vikzhel . allrussian central committee of the railway workers union . so called from the initials of its name . other organisations red guards . the armed factory workers of russia . the red guards were first formed during the revolution of 1905 and sprang into existence again in the days 
he imperial portrait had been cut . here on festal occasions had been banked brilliant military and ecclesiastical uniforms a setting for grand duchesses . . . . just across the hall outside was the office of the credentials committee for the congress of soviets . i stood there watching the new delegates come inburly bearded soldiers workmen in black blouses a few longhaired peasants . the girl in chargea member of plekhanovs yedinstvo groupsmiled contemptuously . these are see notes and explanations very different people from the delegates to the first siezd congress she remarked . see how rough and ignorant they look the dark people . . . . it was true the depths of russia had been stirred and it was the bottom which came uppermost now . the credentials committee appointed by the old tsayeekah was challenging delegate after delegate on the ground that they had been illegally elected . karakhan member of the bolshevik central committee simply grinned . never mind he said when the time comes well see that you
aughters of the russian nobility patronised by the tsarina herself the institute had been taken over by the revolutionary organisations of workers and soldiers . within were more than a hundred huge rooms white and bare on their doors enamelled plaques still informing the passerby that within was ladies classroom number 4 or teachers bureau but over these hung crudelylettered signs evidence of the vitality of the new order central committee of the petrograd soviet and tsayeekah and bureau of foreign affairs union of socialist soldiers central committee of the allrussian trade unions factoryshop committees central army committee and the central offices and caucusrooms of the political parties . . . . the long vaulted corridors lit by rare electric lights were thronged with hurrying shapes of soldiers and workmen some bent under the weight of huge bundles of newspapers proclamations printed propaganda of all sorts . the sound of their heavy boots made a deep and incessant thunder on the wooden floor . . . . sig
 to read and write . for many years the country has been in such a disturbed condition that they have had the advantage of leadership not only of intelligent individuals in their midst but of a large part of the equally revolutionary educated class who have turned to the working people with their ideas for the political and social regeneration of russia . many writers explain their hostility to the soviet government by arguing that the last phase of the russian revolution was simply a struggle of the respectable elements against the brutal attacks of bolshevism . however it was the propertied classes who when they realised the growth in power of the popular revolutionary organisations undertook to destroy them and to halt the revolution . to this end the propertied classes finally resorted to desperate measures . in order to wreck the kerensky ministry and the soviets transportation was disorganised and internal troubles provoked to crush the factory shop committees plants were shut down and fuel and raw mate
rograd until the twoyears provision of grain had fallen to less than enough to feed the city for one month . . . . according to the official report of the last minister of supplies in the provisional government coffee was bought wholesale in vladivostok for two rubles a pound and the consumer in petrograd paid thirteen . in all the stores of the large cities were tons of food and clothing but only the rich could buy them . in a provincial town i knew a merchant family turned speculatormaradior bandit ghoul the russians call it . the three sons had bribed their way out of military service . one gambled in foodstuffs . another sold illegal gold from the lena mines to mysterious parties in finland . the third owned a controlling interest in a chocolate factory which supplied the local cooperative societieson condition that the cooperatives furnished him everything he needed . and so while the masses of the people got a quarter pound of black bread on their bread cards he had an abundance of white bread sugar tea
ound then three quarters half and a quarterpound . toward the end there was a week without any bread at all . sugar one was entitled to at the rate of two pounds a monthif one could get it at all which was seldom . a bar of chocolate or a pound of tasteless candy cost anywhere from seven to ten rublesat least a dollar . there was milk for about half the babies in the city most hotels and private houses never saw it for months . in the fruit season apples and pears sold for a little less than a ruble apiece on the streetcorner . . . . for milk and bread and sugar and tobacco one had to stand in queue long hours in the chill rain . coming home from an allnight meeting i have seen the kvost tail beginning to form before dawn mostly women some with babies in their arms . . . . carlyle in his french revolution has described the french people as distinguished above all others by their faculty of standing in queue . russia had accustomed herself to the practice begun in the reign of nicholas the blessed as long ago 
of 1917 by kerensky for the purpose of strengthening the discipline and combative fire of the army by heroic example . the death battalions were composed mostly of intense young patriots . these came for the most part from among the sons of the propertied classes . union of officers . an organisation formed among the reactionary officers in the army to combat politically the growing power of the army committees . knights of st . george . the cross of st . george was awarded for distinguished action in battle . its holder automatically became a knight of st . george . the predominant influence in the organisation was that of the supporters of the military idea . peasants union . in 1905 the peasants union was a revolutionary peasants organisation . in 1917 however it had become the political expression of the more prosperous peasants to fight the growing power and revolutionary aims of the soviets of peasants deputies . chronology and spelling i have adopted in this book our calendar throughout instead of the 
the great hall of meetings the former ballroom of the institute . a lofty white room lighted by glazedwhite chandeliers holding hundreds of ornate electric bulbs and divided by two rows of massive columns at one end a dais flanked with two tall manybranched light standards and a gold frame behind from which the imperial portrait had been cut . here on festal occasions had been banked brilliant military and ecclesiastical uniforms a setting for grand duchesses . . . . just across the hall outside was the office of the credentials committee for the congress of soviets . i stood there watching the new delegates come inburly bearded soldiers workmen in black blouses a few longhaired peasants . the girl in chargea member of plekhanovs yedinstvo groupsmiled contemptuously . these are see notes and explanations very different people from the delegates to the first siezd congress she remarked . see how rough and ignorant they look the dark people . . . . it was true the depths of russia had been stirred and it was th
o intention of calling this congress or of allowing it to be called . its official organ izviestia news began to hint that the function of the soviets was nearly at an end see app . ii sect . 3 and that they might soon be dissolved . . . at this time too the new government announced as part of its policy the liquidation of irresponsible organisationsi .e . the soviets . the bolsheviki responded by summoning the allrussian soviets to meet at petrograd on november 2 and take over the government of russia . at the same time they withdrew from the council of the russian republic stating that they would not participate in a government of treason to the people . see app . ii sect . 4 the withdrawal of the bolsheviki however did not bring tranquillity to the illfated council . the propertied classes now in a position of power became arrogant . the cadets declared that the government had no legal right to declare russia a republic . they demanded stern measures in the army and navy to destroy the soldiers and sailors
iki and socialist revolutionaries realising that they were defeated suddenly changed their tactics and began to wire frantically to their provincial organisations to elect as many moderate socialist delegates as possible . at the same time the executive committee of the peasants soviets issued an emergency call for a peasants congress to meet december 13th and offset whatever action the workers and soldiers might take . . . what would the bolsheviki do rumours ran through the city that there would be an armed demonstration a vystuplenniecoming out of the workers and soldiers . the bourgeois and reactionary press prophesied insurrection and urged the government to arrest the petrograd soviet or at least to prevent the meeting of the congress . such sheets as novaya rus advocated a general bolshevik massacre . gorkys paper novaya zhizn agreed with the bolsheviki that the reactionaries were attempting to destroy the revolution and that if necessary they must be resisted by force of arms but all the parties of th
ian republic . in the new ministry the propertied classes practically controlled and in the council of the russian republic they occupied a disproportionate number of seats . the fact is that the tsayeekah no longer represented the rank and file of the soviets and had illegally refused to call another allrussian congress of soviets due in september . it had no intention of calling this congress or of allowing it to be called . its official organ izviestia news began to hint that the function of the soviets was nearly at an end see app . ii sect . 3 and that they might soon be dissolved . . . at this time too the new government announced as part of its policy the liquidation of irresponsible organisationsi .e . the soviets . the bolsheviki responded by summoning the allrussian soviets to meet at petrograd on november 2 and take over the government of russia . at the same time they withdrew from the council of the russian republic stating that they would not participate in a government of treason to the people 
sive measures of the government were burning manorhouses and massacring landowners . immense strikes and lockouts convulsed moscow odessa and the coalmines of the don . transportation was paralysed the army was starving and in the big cities there was no bread . the government torn between the democratic and reactionary factions could do nothing when forced to act it always supported the interests of the propertied classes . cossacks were sent to restore order among the peasants to break the strikes . in tashkent government authorities suppressed the soviet . in petrograd the economic council established to rebuild the shattered economic life of the country came to a deadlock between the opposing forces of capital and labour and was dissolved by kerensky . the old rgime military men backed by cadets demanded that harsh measures be adopted to restore discipline in the army and the navy . in vain admiral verderevsky the venerable minister of marine and general verkhovsky minister of war insisted that only a new
 was thirteen days earlier . in the spelling of russian names and words i have made no attempt to follow any scientific rules for transliteration but have tried to give the spelling which would lead the englishspeaking reader to the simplest approximation of their pronunciation . sources much of the material in this book is from my own notes . i have also relied however upon a heterogeneous file of several hundred assorted russian newspapers covering almost every day of the time described of files of the english paper the russian daily news and of the two french papers journal de russie and entente . but far more valuable than these is the bulletin de la presse issued daily by the french information bureau in petrograd which reports all important happenings speeches and the comment of the russian press . of this i have an almost complete file from the spring of 1917 to the end of january 1918 . besides the foregoing i have in my possession almost every proclamation decree and announcement posted on the walls 
th germanyand the provisional government was helpless . siberia the caucasus demanded separate constituent assemblies . and in all these countries there was the beginning of a bitter struggle between the authorities and the local soviets of workers and soldiers deputies . . . . conditions were daily more chaotic . hundreds of thousands of soldiers were deserting the front and beginning to move in vast aimless tides over the face of the land . the peasants of tambov and tver governments tired of waiting for the land exasperated by the repressive measures of the government were burning manorhouses and massacring landowners . immense strikes and lockouts convulsed moscow odessa and the coalmines of the don . transportation was paralysed the army was starving and in the big cities there was no bread . the government torn between the democratic and reactionary factions could do nothing when forced to act it always supported the interests of the propertied classes . cossacks were sent to restore order among the pea
against the railway workers . kerensky it is better not to say anything about him . the list of his services is too long . . . . a congress of delegates of the baltic fleet at helsingfors passed a resolution which began as follows we demand the immediate removal from the ranks of the provisional government of the socialist the political adventurerkerensky as one who is scandalising and ruining the great revolution and with it the revolutionary masses by his shameless political blackmail on behalf of the bourgeoisie . . . . the direct result of all this was the rise of the bolsheviki . . . . since march 1917 when the roaring torrents of workmen and soldiers beating upon the tauride palace compelled the reluctant imperial duma to assume the supreme power in russia it was the masses of the people workers soldiers and peasants which forced every change in the course of the revolution . they hurled the miliukov ministry down it was their soviet which proclaimed to the world the russian peace termsno annexations no
o undertake social and economic reforms in wartime . we are committing that crime and yet i am not the enemy of these reforms because i am a socialist . cries from the left we dont believe you mighty applause from the right . . . . adzhemov for the cadets declared that there was no necessity to tell the army what it was fighting for since every soldier ought to realise that the first task was to drive the enemy from russian territory . kerensky himself came twice to plead passionately for national unity once bursting into tears at the end . the assembly heard him coldly interrupting with ironical remarks . smolny institute headquarters of the tsayeekah and of the petrograd soviet lay miles out on the edge of the city beside the wide neva . i went there on a streetcar moving snaillike with a groaning noise through the cobbled muddy streets and jammed with people . at the end of the line rose the graceful smokeblue cupolas of smolny convent outlined in dull gold beautiful and beside it the great barracks like f
stry the propertied classes practically controlled and in the council of the russian republic they occupied a disproportionate number of seats . the fact is that the tsayeekah no longer represented the rank and file of the soviets and had illegally refused to call another allrussian congress of soviets due in september . it had no intention of calling this congress or of allowing it to be called . its official organ izviestia news began to hint that the function of the soviets was nearly at an end see app . ii sect . 3 and that they might soon be dissolved . . . at this time too the new government announced as part of its policy the liquidation of irresponsible organisationsi .e . the soviets . the bolsheviki responded by summoning the allrussian soviets to meet at petrograd on november 2 and take over the government of russia . at the same time they withdrew from the council of the russian republic stating that they would not participate in a government of treason to the people . see app . ii sect . 4 the wi
ntral asia and personally devoted to general kornilov . the tekhintsi were noted for their blind obedience and their savage cruelty in warfare . death battalions . or shock battalions . the womens battalion is known to the world as the death battalion but there were many death battalions composed of men . these were formed in the summer of 1917 by kerensky for the purpose of strengthening the discipline and combative fire of the army by heroic example . the death battalions were composed mostly of intense young patriots . these came for the most part from among the sons of the propertied classes . union of officers . an organisation formed among the reactionary officers in the army to combat politically the growing power of the army committees . knights of st . george . the cross of st . george was awarded for distinguished action in battle . its holder automatically became a knight of st . george . the predominant influence in the organisation was that of the supporters of the military idea . peasants union 
st months of the russian yearespecially the petrograd year . under dull grey skies in the shortening days the rain fell drenching incessant . the mud underfoot was deep slippery and clinging tracked everywhere by heavy boots and worse than usual because of the complete breakdown of the municipal administration . bitter damp winds rushed in from the gulf of finland and the chill fog rolled through the streets . at night for motives of economy as well as fear of zeppelins the streetlights were few and far between in private dwellings and apartmenthouses the electricity was turned on from six oclock until midnight with candles forty cents apiece and little kerosene to be had . it was dark from three in the afternoon to ten in the morning . robberies and housebreakings increased . in apartment houses the men took turns at allnight guard duty armed with loaded rifles . this was under the provisional government . week by week food became scarcer . the daily allowance of bread fell from a pound and a half to a pound
ur allies do not care about us . the minister has in his possession very important declarations . declarations what about deeds what about the behaviour of the british fleet see app . ii sect . 9 the parleying of the british king with exiled counterrevolutionary general gurko the minister did not mention all this . 5 . the nakaz to skobeliev is bad the allies dont like it and the russian diplomats dont like it . in the allied conference we must all speak one language . and is that all that is all . what is the way out the solution is faith in the allies and in terestchenko . when will peace come when the allies permit . that is how the government replied to the trenches about peace now in the background of russian politics began to form the vague outlines of a sinister powerthe cossacks . novaya zhizn new life gorkys paper called attention to their activities at the beginning of the revolution the cossacks refused to shoot down the people . when kornilov marched on petrograd they refused to follow him . from 
 front of the stage . . . . kaledin ataman of the don cossacks had been dismissed by the provisional government for his complicity in the kornilov affair . he flatly refused to resign and surrounded by three immense cossack armies lay at novotcherkask plotting and menacing . so great was his power that the government was forced to ignore his insubordination . more than that it was compelled formally to recognise the council of the union of cossack armies and to declare illegal the newlyformed cossack section of the soviets . . . . in the first part of october a cossack delegation called upon kerensky arrogantly insisting that the charges against kaledin be dropped and reproaching the ministerpresident for yielding to the soviets . kerensky agreed to let kaledin alone and then is reported to have said in the eyes of the soviet leaders i am a despot and a tyrant . . . . as for the provisional government not only does it not depend upon the soviets but it considers it regrettable that they exist at all . at the 
 if all these organisations are destroyed for they will bring nothing but disaster upon russia . . . . with the taking of petrograd the baltic fleet will also be destroyed . . . . but there will be nothing to regret most of the battleships are completely demoralised . . . . in the face of a storm of popular disapproval the plan of evacuation was repudiated . meanwhile the congress of soviets loomed over russia like a thundercloud shot through with lightnings . it was opposed not only by the government but by all the moderate socialists . the central army and fleet committees the central committees of some of the trade unions the peasants soviets but most of all the tsayeekah itself spared no pains to prevent the meeting . izviestia and golos soldata voice of the soldier newspapers founded by the petrograd soviet but now in the hands of the tsayeekah fiercely assailed it as did the entire artillery of the socialist revolutionary party press dielo naroda peoples cause and volia naroda peoples will . delegates w
the mensheviki . after the bolshevik coup detat yedinstvo disappeared . 5 . socialist revolutionary party . called essaires from the initials of their name . originally the revolutionary party of the peasants the party of the fighting organisationsthe terrorists . after the march revolution it was joined by many who had never been socialists . at that time it stood for the abolition of private property in land only the owners to be compensated in some fashion . finally the increasing revolutionary feeling of peasants forced the essaires to abandon the compensation clause and led to the younger and more fiery intellectuals breaking off from the main party in the fall of 1917 and forming a new party the left socialist revolutionary party . the essaires who were afterward always called by the radical groups right socialist revolutionaries adopted the political attitude of the mensheviki and worked together with them . they finally came to represent the wealthier peasants the intellectuals and the politically une
lminate . having at one bound leaped from the middle ages into the twentieth century russia showed the startled world two systems of revolutionthe political and the socialin mortal combat . what a revelation of the vitality of the russian revolution after all these months of starvation and disillusionment the bourgeoisie should have better known its russia . not for a long time in russia will the sickness of revolution have run its course . . . . looking back russia before the november insurrection seems of another age almost incredibly conservative . so quickly did we adapt ourselves to the newer swifter life just as russian politics swung bodily to the leftuntil the cadets were outlawed as enemies of the people kerensky became a counterrevolutionist the middle socialist leaders tseretelli dan lieber gotz and avksentiev were too reactionary for their following and men like victor tchernov and even maxim gorky belonged to the right wing . . . . about the middle of december 1917 a group of socialist revolution
ring landowners . immense strikes and lockouts convulsed moscow odessa and the coalmines of the don . transportation was paralysed the army was starving and in the big cities there was no bread . the government torn between the democratic and reactionary factions could do nothing when forced to act it always supported the interests of the propertied classes . cossacks were sent to restore order among the peasants to break the strikes . in tashkent government authorities suppressed the soviet . in petrograd the economic council established to rebuild the shattered economic life of the country came to a deadlock between the opposing forces of capital and labour and was dissolved by kerensky . the old rgime military men backed by cadets demanded that harsh measures be adopted to restore discipline in the army and the navy . in vain admiral verderevsky the venerable minister of marine and general verkhovsky minister of war insisted that only a new voluntary democratic discipline based on cooperation with the sold
epresentativesgeneral alexeyev reactionary military man and terestchenko minister of foreign affairs . the soviets chose skobeliev to speak for them and drew up a manifesto the famous nakaz see app . ii sect . 5 instructions . the provisional government objected to skobeliev and his nakaz the allied ambassadors protested and finally bonar law in the british house of commons in answer to a question responded coldly as far as i know the paris conference will not discuss the aims of the war at all but only the methods of conducting it . . . . at this the conservative russian press was jubilant and the bolsheviki cried see where the compromising tactics of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries have led them along a thousand miles of front the millions of men in russias armies stirred like the sea rising pouring into the capital their hundreds upon hundreds of delegations crying peace peace i went across the river to the cirque moderne to one of the great popular meetings which occurred all over the city mo
es on the streetcorners end less soldier speakers all clamouring for an end to the war declaring that if the government did not make an energetic effort to get peace the army would leave the trenches and go home . the spokesman for the eighth army we are weak we have only a few men left in each company . they must give us food and boots and reinforcements or soon there will be left only empty trenches . peace or supplies . . . either let the government end the war or support the army . . . . for the fortysixth siberian artillery the officers will not work with our committees they betray us to the enemy they apply the death penalty to our agitators and the counterrevolutionary government supports them . we thought that the revolution would bring peace . but now the government forbids us even to talk of such things and at the same time doesnt give us enough food to live on or enough ammunition to fight with . . . . from europe came rumours of peace at the expense of russia . see app . ii sect . 6 . . . news of 
n go too farthat if they dare to lay their hands upon the organisations of the proletariat we will sweep them away like scum from the face of the earth the bolshevik press suddenly expanded . besides the two party papers rabotchi put and soldat soldier there appeared a new paper for the peasants derevenskaya byednota village poorest poured out in a daily halfmillion edition and on october 17th rabotchi i soldat . its leading article summed up the bolshevik point of view the fourth years campaign will mean the annihilation of the army and the country . . . . there is danger for the safety of petrograd . . . . counterrevolutionists rejoice in the peoples misfortunes . . . . the peasants brought to desperation come out in open rebellion the landlords and government authorities massacre them with punitive expeditions factories and mines are closing down workmen are threatened with starvation . . . . the bourgeoisie and its generals want to restore a blind discipline in the army . . . . supported by the bourgeoisi
ve not ceased to insist that it is a crime to undertake social and economic reforms in wartime . we are committing that crime and yet i am not the enemy of these reforms because i am a socialist . cries from the left we dont believe you mighty applause from the right . . . . adzhemov for the cadets declared that there was no necessity to tell the army what it was fighting for since every soldier ought to realise that the first task was to drive the enemy from russian territory . kerensky himself came twice to plead passionately for national unity once bursting into tears at the end . the assembly heard him coldly interrupting with ironical remarks . smolny institute headquarters of the tsayeekah and of the petrograd soviet lay miles out on the edge of the city beside the wide neva . i went there on a streetcar moving snaillike with a groaning noise through the cobbled muddy streets and jammed with people . at the end of the line rose the graceful smokeblue cupolas of smolny convent outlined in dull gold beaut
 keynote russia is a great power . russia will remain a great power whatever happens . we must all defend her we must show that we are defenders of a great ideal and children of a great power . nobody was satisfied . the reactionaries wanted a strong imperialist policy the democratic parties wanted an assurance that the government would press for peace . . . . i reproduce an editorial in rabotchi i soldat worker and soldier organ of the bolshevik petrograd soviet the governments answer to the trenches the most taciturn of our ministers mr . terestchenko has actually told the trenches the following 1 . we are closely united with our allies . not with the peoples but with the governments . 2 . there is no use for the democracy to discuss the possibility or impossibility of a winter campaign . that will be decided by the governments of our allies . 3 . the 1st of july offensive was beneficial and a very happy affair . he did not mention the consequences . 4 . it is not true that our allies do not care about us .
ternal rottenness moved the oldtime dark forces unchanged since the fall of nicholas the second secret still and very active . the agents of the notorious okhrana still functioned for and against the tsar for and against kerenskywhoever would pay . . . . in the darkness underground organisations of all sorts such as the black hundreds were busy attempting to restore reaction in some form or other . in this atmosphere of corruption of monstrous halftruths one clear note sounded day after day the deepening chorus of the bolsheviki all power to the soviets all power to the direct representatives of millions on millions of common workers soldiers peasants . land bread an end to the senseless war an end to secret diplomacy speculation treachery . . . . the revolution is in danger and with it the cause of the people all over the world the struggle between the proletariat and the middle class between the soviets and the government which had begun in the first march days was about to culminate . having at one bound l
tives furnished him everything he needed . and so while the masses of the people got a quarter pound of black bread on their bread cards he had an abundance of white bread sugar tea candy cake and butter . . . . yet when the soldiers at the front could no longer fight from cold hunger and exhaustion how indignantly did this family scream cowardshow ashamed they were to be russians . . . when finally the bolsheviki found and requisitioned vast hoarded stores of provisions what robbers they were . beneath all this external rottenness moved the oldtime dark forces unchanged since the fall of nicholas the second secret still and very active . the agents of the notorious okhrana still functioned for and against the tsar for and against kerenskywhoever would pay . . . . in the darkness underground organisations of all sorts such as the black hundreds were busy attempting to restore reaction in some form or other . in this atmosphere of corruption of monstrous halftruths one clear note sounded day after day the deep
minister of foreign affairs . the soviets chose skobeliev to speak for them and drew up a manifesto the famous nakaz see app . ii sect . 5 instructions . the provisional government objected to skobeliev and his nakaz the allied ambassadors protested and finally bonar law in the british house of commons in answer to a question responded coldly as far as i know the paris conference will not discuss the aims of the war at all but only the methods of conducting it . . . . at this the conservative russian press was jubilant and the bolsheviki cried see where the compromising tactics of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries have led them along a thousand miles of front the millions of men in russias armies stirred like the sea rising pouring into the capital their hundreds upon hundreds of delegations crying peace peace i went across the river to the cirque moderne to one of the great popular meetings which occurred all over the city more numerous night after night . the bare gloomy amphitheatre lit by five 
h all our strength until the peoples of the world rise and help us tell the american workers to rise and fight for the social revolution then came petrovsky slight slowvoiced implacable now is the time for deeds not words . the economic situation is bad but we must get used to it . they are trying to starve us and freeze us . they are trying to provoke us . but let them know that they can go too farthat if they dare to lay their hands upon the organisations of the proletariat we will sweep them away like scum from the face of the earth the bolshevik press suddenly expanded . besides the two party papers rabotchi put and soldat soldier there appeared a new paper for the peasants derevenskaya byednota village poorest poured out in a daily halfmillion edition and on october 17th rabotchi i soldat . its leading article summed up the bolshevik point of view the fourth years campaign will mean the annihilation of the army and the country . . . . there is danger for the safety of petrograd . . . . counterrevolutioni
s roughly deliberative body . the old imperial duma which persisted six months after the revolution in a democratised form died a natural death in september 1917 . the city duma referred to in this book was the reorganised municipal council often called municipal selfgovernment . it was elected by direct and secret ballot and its only reason for failure to hold the masses during the bolshevik revolution was the general decline in influence of all purely political representation in the fact of the growing power of organisations based on economic groups . 5 . zemstvos . may be roughly translated county councils . under the tsar semipolitical semisocial bodies with very little administrative power developed and controlled largely by intellectual liberals among the landowning classes . their most important function was education and social service among the peasants . during the war the zemstvos gradually took over the entire feeding and clothing of the russian army as well as the buying from foreign countries an
inst this damned war this can be done only by a revolutionary government which would speak really for the workmen soldiers and peasants of russia and would appeal over the heads of the diplomats directly to the german troops fill the german trenches with proclamations in the german language . . . . our airmen would spread these proclamations all over germany . . . . in the council of the republic the gulf between the two sides of the chamber deepened day by day . the propertied classes cried karelin for the left socialist revolutionaries want to exploit the revolutionary machine of the state to bind russia to the warchariot of the allies the revolutionary parties are absolutely against this policy . . . . old nicholas tchaikovsky representing the populist socialists spoke against giving the land to the peasants and took the side of the cadets we must have immediately strong discipline in the army . . . . since the beginning of the war i have not ceased to insist that it is a crime to undertake social and econ
suggest themselves to the mind of the reader . what is bolshevism what kind of a governmental structure did the bolsheviki set up if the bolsheviki championed the constituent assembly before the november revolution why did they disperse it by force of arms afterward and if the bourgeoisie opposed the constituent assembly until the danger of bolshevism became apparent why did they champion it afterward these and many other questions cannot be answered here . in another volume kornilov to brestlitovsk i trace the course of the revolution up to and including the german peace . there i explain the origin and functions of the revolutionary organisations the evolution of popular sentiment the dissolution of the constituent assembly the structure of the soviet state and the course and outcome of the brest litovsk negotiations . in considering the rise of the bolsheviki it is necessary to understand that russian economic life and the russian army were not disorganised on november 7th 1917 but many months before as th
ere reluctant to follow the ruthless bolshevik tactics . however the left socialist revolutionaries remained in the soviet government sharing the cabinet portfolios especially that of agriculture . they withdrew from the government several times but always returned . as the peasants left the ranks of the essaires in increasing numbers they joined the left socialist revolutionary party which became the great peasant party supporting the soviet government standing for confiscation without compensation of the great landed estates and their disposition by the peasants themselves . among the leaders spiridonova karelin kamkov kalagayev . b . maximalists . an offshoot of the socialist revolutionary party in the revolution of 1905 when it was a powerful peasant movement demanding the immediate application of the maximum socialist programme . now an insignificant group of peasant anarchists . parliamentary procedure russian meetings and conventions are organised after the continental model rather than our own . the f
ivers had a union they were also represented in the petrograd soviet . the waiters and hotel servants were organised and refused tips . on the walls of restaurants they put up signs which read no tips taken here or just because a man has to make his living waiting on table is no reason to insult him by offering him a tip at the front the soldiers fought out their fight with the officers and learned selfgovernment through their committees . in the factories those unique russian organisations the factoryshop committees gained experience and strength and a realisation of see notes and explanations their historical mission by combat with the old order . all russia was learning to read and readingpolitics economics historybecause the people wanted to know . . . . in every city in most towns along the front each political faction had its newspapersometimes several . hundreds of thousands of pamphlets were distributed by thousands of organisations and poured into the armies the villages the factories the streets . t
ommittee of the allrussian soviets in the capital called from its initials tsayeekah . see below central committees . almost everywhere the soviets of workers and of soldiers deputies combined very soon after the march revolution . in special matters concerning their peculiar interests however the workers and the soldiers sections continued to meet separately . the soviets of peasants deputies did not join the other two until after the bolshevik coup detat . they too were organised like the workers and soldiers with an executive committee of the allrussian peasants soviets in the capital . 2 . trade unions . although mostly industrial in form the russian labour unions were still called trade unions and at the time of the bolshevik revolution had from three to four million members . these unions were also organised in an allrussian body a sort of russian federation of labour which had its central executive committee in the capital . 3 . factoryshop committees . these were spontaneous organisations created in t
or a little less than a ruble apiece on the streetcorner . . . . for milk and bread and sugar and tobacco one had to stand in queue long hours in the chill rain . coming home from an allnight meeting i have seen the kvost tail beginning to form before dawn mostly women some with babies in their arms . . . . carlyle in his french revolution has described the french people as distinguished above all others by their faculty of standing in queue . russia had accustomed herself to the practice begun in the reign of nicholas the blessed as long ago as 1915 and from then continued intermittently until the summer of 1917 when it settled down as the regular order of things . think of the poorlyclad people standing on the ironwhite streets of petrograd whole days in the russian winter i have listened in the breadlines hearing the bitter acrid note of discontent which from time to time burst up through the miraculous goodnature of the russian crowd . . . . of course all the theatres were going every night including sund
 and began to wire frantically to their provincial organisations to elect as many moderate socialist delegates as possible . at the same time the executive committee of the peasants soviets issued an emergency call for a peasants congress to meet december 13th and offset whatever action the workers and soldiers might take . . . what would the bolsheviki do rumours ran through the city that there would be an armed demonstration a vystuplenniecoming out of the workers and soldiers . the bourgeois and reactionary press prophesied insurrection and urged the government to arrest the petrograd soviet or at least to prevent the meeting of the congress . such sheets as novaya rus advocated a general bolshevik massacre . gorkys paper novaya zhizn agreed with the bolsheviki that the reactionaries were attempting to destroy the revolution and that if necessary they must be resisted by force of arms but all the parties of the revolutionary democracy must present a united front . as long as the democracy has not organised
s . he merely asks that the other classes take one side or the other in the bitter conflict that draws near . they the workers were all agreed that our american political institutions were preferable to their own but they were not very anxious to exchange one despot for another i .e . the capitalist class . the workingmen of russia did not have themselves shot down executed by hundreds in moscow riga and odessa imprisoned by thousands in every russian jail and exiled to the deserts and the arctic regions in exchange for the doubtful privileges of the workingmen of goldfields and cripple creek . and so developed in russia in the midst of a foreign war the social revolution on top of the political revolution culminating in the triumph of bolshevism . mr . a . j . sack director in this country of the russian information bureau which opposes the soviet government has this to say in his book the birth of the russian democracy the bolsheviks organised their own cabinet with nicholas lenine as premier and leon trots
f the city beside the wide neva . i went there on a streetcar moving snaillike with a groaning noise through the cobbled muddy streets and jammed with people . at the end of the line rose the graceful smokeblue cupolas of smolny convent outlined in dull gold beautiful and beside it the great barracks like faade of smolny institute two hundred yards long and three lofty stories high the imperial arms carved hugely in stone still insolent over the entrance . . . . under the old rgime a famous conventschool for the daughters of the russian nobility patronised by the tsarina herself the institute had been taken over by the revolutionary organisations of workers and soldiers . within were more than a hundred huge rooms white and bare on their doors enamelled plaques still informing the passerby that within was ladies classroom number 4 or teachers bureau but over these hung crudelylettered signs evidence of the vitality of the new order central committee of the petrograd soviet and tsayeekah and bureau of foreign 
tical institutions were preferable to their own but they were not very anxious to exchange one despot for another i .e . the capitalist class . the workingmen of russia did not have themselves shot down executed by hundreds in moscow riga and odessa imprisoned by thousands in every russian jail and exiled to the deserts and the arctic regions in exchange for the doubtful privileges of the workingmen of goldfields and cripple creek . and so developed in russia in the midst of a foreign war the social revolution on top of the political revolution culminating in the triumph of bolshevism . mr . a . j . sack director in this country of the russian information bureau which opposes the soviet government has this to say in his book the birth of the russian democracy the bolsheviks organised their own cabinet with nicholas lenine as premier and leon trotsky minister of foreign affairs . the inevitability of their coming into power became evident almost immediately after the march revolution . the history of the bolsh
lists in all countries . the bolsheviki proposed immediate proletarian insurrection and seizure of the reins of government in order to hasten the coming of socialism by forcibly taking over industry land natural resources and financial institutions . this party expresses the desires chiefly of the factory workers but also of a large section of the poor peasants . the name bolshevik can not be translated by maximalist . the maximalists are a separate group . see paragraph 5b . among the leaders lenin trotzky lunatcharsky . d . united social democrats internationalists . also called the novaya zhizn new life group from the name of the very influential newspaper which was its organ . a little group of intellectuals with a very small following among the workingclass except the personal following of maxim gorky its leader . intellectuals with almost the same programme as the mensheviki internationalists except that the novaya zhizn group refused to be tied to either of the two great factions . opposed the bolshevi
factoryshop committees and the trade unions were there to put into operation workers control of industry . in every village town city district and province there were soviets of workers soldiers and peasants deputies prepared to assume the task of local administration . no matter what one thinks of bolshevism it is undeniable that the russian revolution is one of the great events of human history and the rise of the bolsheviki a phenomenon of worldwide importance . just as historians search the records for the minutest details of the story of the paris commune so they will want to know what happened in petrograd in november 1917 the spirit which animated the people and how the leaders looked talked and acted . it is with this in view that i have written this book . in the struggle my sympathies were not neutral . but in telling the story of those great days i have tried to see events with the eye of a conscientious reporter interested in setting down the truth . j . r . new york january 1st 1919 . notes and e
oretically all socialist parties in russia were in favour of the earliest possible peace on democratic terms . as long ago as may 1917 the petrograd soviet then under control of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionarieshad proclaimed the famous russian peaceconditions . they had demanded that the allies hold a conference to discuss waraims . this conference had been promised for august then postponed until september then until october and now it was fixed for november 10th . the provisional government suggested two representativesgeneral alexeyev reactionary military man and terestchenko minister of foreign affairs . the soviets chose skobeliev to speak for them and drew up a manifesto the famous nakaz see app . ii sect . 5 instructions . the provisional government objected to skobeliev and his nakaz the allied ambassadors protested and finally bonar law in the british house of commons in answer to a question responded coldly as far as i know the paris conference will not discuss the aims of the war at all
statethough with some improvements on the western democracies . as a consequence they insisted upon the collaboration of the propertied classes in the government . from this it was an easy step to supporting them . the moderate socialists needed the bourgeoisie . but the bourgeoisie did not need the moderate socialists . so it resulted in the socialist ministers being obliged to give way little by little on their entire program while the propertied classes grew more and more insistent . and at the end when the bolsheviki upset the whole hollow compromise the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries found themselves fighting on the side of the propertied classes . in almost every country in the world today the same phenomenon is visible . instead of being a destructive force it seems to me that the bolsheviki were the only party in russia with a constructive program and the power to impose it on the country . if they had not succeeded to the government when they did there is little doubt in my mind that the ar
ded estates and their disposition by the peasants themselves . among the leaders spiridonova karelin kamkov kalagayev . b . maximalists . an offshoot of the socialist revolutionary party in the revolution of 1905 when it was a powerful peasant movement demanding the immediate application of the maximum socialist programme . now an insignificant group of peasant anarchists . parliamentary procedure russian meetings and conventions are organised after the continental model rather than our own . the first action is usually the election of officers and the presidium . the presidium is a presiding committee composed of representatives of the groups and political factions represented in the assembly in proportion to their numbers . the presidium arranges the order of business and its members can be called upon by the president to take the chair pro tem . each question vopros is stated in a general way and then debated and at the close of the debate resolutions are submitted by the different factions and each one vo
powerful factions no longer existed openly they either worked underground or their members joined the cadets as the cadets came by degrees to stand for their political programme . representatives in this book rodzianko shulgin . 2 . cadets . socalled from the initials of its name constitutional democrats . its official name is party of the peoples freedom . under the tsar composed of liberals from the propertied classes the cadets were the great party of political reform roughly corresponding to the progressive party in america . when the revolution broke out in march 1917 the cadets formed the first provisional government . the cadet ministry was overthrown in april because it declared itself in favour of allied imperialistic aims including the imperialistic aims of the tsars government . as the revolution became more and more a social economic revolution the cadets grew more and more conservative . its representatives in this book are miliukov vinaver shatsky . 2a . group of public men . after the cadets ha
eek food became scarcer . the daily allowance of bread fell from a pound and a half to a pound then three quarters half and a quarterpound . toward the end there was a week without any bread at all . sugar one was entitled to at the rate of two pounds a monthif one could get it at all which was seldom . a bar of chocolate or a pound of tasteless candy cost anywhere from seven to ten rublesat least a dollar . there was milk for about half the babies in the city most hotels and private houses never saw it for months . in the fruit season apples and pears sold for a little less than a ruble apiece on the streetcorner . . . . for milk and bread and sugar and tobacco one had to stand in queue long hours in the chill rain . coming home from an allnight meeting i have seen the kvost tail beginning to form before dawn mostly women some with babies in their arms . . . . carlyle in his french revolution has described the french people as distinguished above all others by their faculty of standing in queue . russia had 
. adventure it was and one of the most marvellous mankind ever embarked upon sweeping into history at the head of the toiling masses and staking everything on their vast and simple desires . already the machinery had been set up by which the land of the great estates could be distributed among the peasants . the factoryshop committees and the trade unions were there to put into operation workers control of industry . in every village town city district and province there were soviets of workers soldiers and peasants deputies prepared to assume the task of local administration . no matter what one thinks of bolshevism it is undeniable that the russian revolution is one of the great events of human history and the rise of the bolsheviki a phenomenon of worldwide importance . just as historians search the records for the minutest details of the story of the paris commune so they will want to know what happened in petrograd in november 1917 the spirit which animated the people and how the leaders looked talked an
sgeneral alexeyev reactionary military man and terestchenko minister of foreign affairs . the soviets chose skobeliev to speak for them and drew up a manifesto the famous nakaz see app . ii sect . 5 instructions . the provisional government objected to skobeliev and his nakaz the allied ambassadors protested and finally bonar law in the british house of commons in answer to a question responded coldly as far as i know the paris conference will not discuss the aims of the war at all but only the methods of conducting it . . . . at this the conservative russian press was jubilant and the bolsheviki cried see where the compromising tactics of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries have led them along a thousand miles of front the millions of men in russias armies stirred like the sea rising pouring into the capital their hundreds upon hundreds of delegations crying peace peace i went across the river to the cirque moderne to one of the great popular meetings which occurred all over the city more numerous n
 pay with riga the price of bringing the country to a sense of its duty see kornilov to brestlitvosk by john reed . boni and liveright n .y . 1919 to americans it is incredible that the class war should develop to such a pitch . but i have personally met officers on the northern front who frankly preferred military disaster to cooperation with the soldiers committees . the secretary of the petrograd branch of the cadet party told me that the breakdown of the countrys economic life was part of a campaign to discredit the revolution . an allied diplomat whose name i promised not to mention confirmed this from his own knowledge . i know of certain coalmines near kharkov which were fired and flooded by their owners of textile factories at moscow whose engineers put the machinery out of order when they left of railroad officials caught by the workers in the act of crippling locomotives . . . . a large section of the propertied classes preferred the germans to the revolutioneven to the provisional governmentand did
 emperor on button and shoulderstrap . along about five oclock in the afternoon the streets were full of subdued old gentlemen in uniform with portfolios going home from work in the huge barracklike ministries or government institutions calculating perhaps how great a mortality among their superiors would advance them to the coveted tchin rank of collegiate assessor or privy councillor with the prospect of retirement on a comfortable pension and possibly the cross of st . anne . . . . there is the story of senator sokolov who in full tide of revolution came to a meeting of the senate one day in civilian clothes and was not admitted because he did not wear the prescribed livery of the tsars service it was against this background of a whole nation in ferment and disintegration that the pageant of the rising of the russian masses unrolled . . . . chapter ii the coming storm in september general kornilov marched on petrograd to make himself military dictator of russia . behind him was suddenly revealed the mailed
ilitary idea . peasants union . in 1905 the peasants union was a revolutionary peasants organisation . in 1917 however it had become the political expression of the more prosperous peasants to fight the growing power and revolutionary aims of the soviets of peasants deputies . chronology and spelling i have adopted in this book our calendar throughout instead of the former russian calendar which was thirteen days earlier . in the spelling of russian names and words i have made no attempt to follow any scientific rules for transliteration but have tried to give the spelling which would lead the englishspeaking reader to the simplest approximation of their pronunciation . sources much of the material in this book is from my own notes . i have also relied however upon a heterogeneous file of several hundred assorted russian newspapers covering almost every day of the time described of files of the english paper the russian daily news and of the two french papers journal de russie and entente . but far more valua
ed a savage hunt of the bolsheviki hundreds were imprisoned among them trotzky madame kollontai and kameniev lenin and zinoviev went into hiding fugitives from justice the bolshevik papers were suppressed . provocators and reactionaries raised the cry that the bolsheviki were german agents until people all over the world believed it . but the provisional government found itself unable to substantiate its accusations the documents proving progerman conspiracy were discovered to be forgeries and one by one the bolsheviki were part of the famous sisson documents released from prison without trial on nominal or no bailuntil only six remained . the impotence and indecision of the everchanging provisional government was an argument nobody could refute . the bolsheviki raised again the slogan so dear to the masses all power to the sovietsand they were not merely selfseeking for at that time the majority of the soviets was moderate socialist their bitter enemy . but more potent still they took the crude simple desire
they must give us food and boots and reinforcements or soon there will be left only empty trenches . peace or supplies . . . either let the government end the war or support the army . . . . for the fortysixth siberian artillery the officers will not work with our committees they betray us to the enemy they apply the death penalty to our agitators and the counterrevolutionary government supports them . we thought that the revolution would bring peace . but now the government forbids us even to talk of such things and at the same time doesnt give us enough food to live on or enough ammunition to fight with . . . . from europe came rumours of peace at the expense of russia . see app . ii sect . 6 . . . news of the treatment of russian troops in france added to the discontent . the first brigade had tried to replace its officers with soldiers committees like their comrades at home and had refused an order to go to salonika demanding to be sent to russia . they had been surrounded and starved and then fired on by
the russian people to their senses . . . . mr . lianozov was emphatic in his opinion that whatever happened it would be impossible for merchants and manufacturers to permit the existence of the workers shop committees or to allow the workers any share in the management of industry . as for the bolsheviki they will be done away with by one of two methods . the government can evacuate petrograd then a state of siege declared and the military commander of the district can deal with these gentlemen without legal formalities . . . . or if for example the constituent assembly manifests any utopian tendencies it can be dispersed by force of arms . . . . winter was coming onthe terrible russian winter . i heard business men speak of it so winter was always russias best friend . perhaps now it will rid us of revolution . on the freezing front miserable armies continued to starve and die without enthusiasm . the railways were breaking down food lessening factories closing . the desperate masses cried out that the bourg
ing people saw it was possible that even under a free government if it fell into the hands of other social classes they might still continue to starve . the russian workman is revolutionary but he is neither violent dogmatic nor unintelligent . he is ready for barricades but he has studied them and alone of the workers of the world he has learned about them from actual experience . he is ready and willing to fight his oppressor the capitalist class to a finish . but he does not ignore the existence of other classes . he merely asks that the other classes take one side or the other in the bitter conflict that draws near . they the workers were all agreed that our american political institutions were preferable to their own but they were not very anxious to exchange one despot for another i .e . the capitalist class . the workingmen of russia did not have themselves shot down executed by hundreds in moscow riga and odessa imprisoned by thousands in every russian jail and exiled to the deserts and the arctic reg
 army committees . the army committees were formed by the soldiers at the front to combat the reactionary influence of the old regime officers . every company regiment brigade division and corps had its committee over all of which was elected the army committee . the central army committee cooperated with the general staff . the administrative breakdown in the army incident upon the revolution threw upon the shoulders of the army committees most of the work of the quartermasters department and in some cases even the command of troops . 8 . fleet committees . the corresponding organisations in the navy . central committees in the spring and summer of 1917 allrussian conventions of every sort of organisation were held at petrograd . there were national congresses of workers soldiers and peasants soviets trade unions factoryshop committees army and fleet committeesbesides every branch of the military and naval service cooperatives nationalities etc . each of these conventions elected a central committee or a cen
v counterrevolution the group of public men was formed in moscow . delegates from the group of public men were given portfolios in the last kerensky cabinet . the group declared itself nonpartisan although its intellectual leaders were men like rodzianko and shulgin . it was composed of the more modern bankers merchants and manufacturers who were intelligent enough to realise that the soviets must be fought by their own weaponeconomic organisation . typical of the group lianozov konovalov . 3 . populist socialists or trudoviki labour group . numerically a small party composed of cautious intellectuals the leaders of the cooperative societies and conservative peasants . professing to be socialists the populists really supported the interests of the petty bourgeoisieclerks shopkeepers etc . by direct descent inheritors of the compromising tradition of the labour group in the fourth imperial duma which was composed largely of peasant representatives . kerensky was the leader of the trudoviki in the imperial duma
e german agents until people all over the world believed it . but the provisional government found itself unable to substantiate its accusations the documents proving progerman conspiracy were discovered to be forgeries and one by one the bolsheviki were part of the famous sisson documents released from prison without trial on nominal or no bailuntil only six remained . the impotence and indecision of the everchanging provisional government was an argument nobody could refute . the bolsheviki raised again the slogan so dear to the masses all power to the sovietsand they were not merely selfseeking for at that time the majority of the soviets was moderate socialist their bitter enemy . but more potent still they took the crude simple desires of the workers soldiers and peasants and from them built their immediate programme . and so while the oborontsi mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries involved themselves in compromise with the bourgeoisie the bolsheviki rapidly captured the russian masses . in july they
nilov . a soldier from the rumanian front thin tragical and fierce cried comrades we are starving at the front we are stiff with cold . we are dying for no reason . i ask the american comrades to carry word to america that the russians will never give up their revolution until they die . we will hold the fort with all our strength until the peoples of the world rise and help us tell the american workers to rise and fight for the social revolution then came petrovsky slight slowvoiced implacable now is the time for deeds not words . the economic situation is bad but we must get used to it . they are trying to starve us and freeze us . they are trying to provoke us . but let them know that they can go too farthat if they dare to lay their hands upon the organisations of the proletariat we will sweep them away like scum from the face of the earth the bolshevik press suddenly expanded . besides the two party papers rabotchi put and soldat soldier there appeared a new paper for the peasants derevenskaya byednota v