no wen demrof dna seettimmoc tsinoitcurtsbo dlo eht dehsams yeht srehto ni . dargortep ot og ot rebmun rieht fo eno esohc dna sgniteem pmur dleh setageled teivos raluger rieht gnitcele morf detneverp elpoep eht secalp emos ni . snoitasinagro teelf dna ymra tnegrusni eht dna seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf iteitimoc eyiksdovazonhctirbaf eht srekrow lairtsudni eht fo snoitasinagro eht erew ereht neht kivehslob ydaerla erew steivos lacol ynam . stnasaep roop dna sreidlos nommoc nemkrow ehttairatelorp eht fo lliw sselepahs eht saw dnah rehto eht no . . . . steivos fo ssergnoc eht kcolb ot denoitcnuf hcram fo noitulover naissur eht yb pu tes yrenihcam eritne eht . lavorppasid fo surohc eno saw cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht . snoitanalpxe dna seton ees . . . . gnitsetorp snoilattab htaed egroeg . ts fo sthgink sreciffo fo noinu seimra kcassoc fo noinu noinu stnasaep eht sovtsmez fo noinu eht morf tnorf eht morf sevitatneserper ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht fo etad eht raen os gniteem eht ot desoppo saw ycarcomed eht taht s
orca tnew i ecaep ecaep gniyrc snoitageled fo sderdnuh nopu sderdnuh rieht latipac eht otni gniruop gnisir aes eht ekil derrits seimra saissur ni nem fo snoillim eht tnorf fo selim dnasuoht a gnola meht del evah seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo scitcat gnisimorpmoc eht erehw ees deirc ikivehslob eht dna tnalibuj saw sserp naissur evitavresnoc eht siht ta . . . . ti gnitcudnoc fo sdohtem eht ylno tub lla ta raw eht fo smia eht ssucsid ton lliw ecnerefnoc sirap eht wonk i sa raf sa yldloc dednopser noitseuq a ot rewsna ni snommoc fo esuoh hsitirb eht ni wal ranob yllanif dna detsetorp srodassabma deilla eht zakan sih dna veileboks ot detcejbo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . snoitcurtsni 5 . tces ii . ppa ees zakan suomaf eht otsefinam a pu werd dna meht rof kaeps ot veileboks esohc steivos eht . sriaffa ngierof fo retsinim oknehctseret dna nam yratilim yranoitcaer veyexela larenegsevitatneserper owt detseggus tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . ht01 rebmevon rof dexif saw ti won dna rebotco litnu neht rebm
noisseforp fo snoinu dehsilbatse slarebil rehto dna vokuilim rosseforp 5091 fo noitulover eht gnirud . snoinu fo noinu era koob siht ni denoitnem seettimmoc lartnec tnatropmi tsom eht . srewop evitartsinimda erom dna erom emussa ot decrof erew seettimmoc lartnec eseht rekaew werg tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht sa . tnemnrevog fo taes eht ta stseretni ralucitrap sti draug ot eettimmoc evitucexe lartnec a ro eettimmoc lartnec a detcele snoitnevnoc eseht fo hcae . cte seitilanoitan sevitarepooc ecivres lavan dna yratilim eht fo hcnarb yreve sedisebseettimmoc teelf dna ymra seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf snoinu edart steivos stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo sessergnoc lanoitan erew ereht . dargortep ta dleh erew noitasinagro fo tros yreve fo snoitnevnoc naissurlla 7191 fo remmus dna gnirps eht ni seettimmoc lartnec . yvan eht ni snoitasinagro gnidnopserroc eht . seettimmoc teelf . 8 . spoort fo dnammoc eht neve sesac emos ni dna tnemtraped sretsamretrauq eht fo krow eht fo tsom seettimmoc ymra eht fo sredluohs eht nopu werht
alupop detacudenu yllacitilop eht dna slautcelletni eht stnasaep reihtlaew eht tneserper ot emac yllanif yeht . meht htiw rehtegot dekrow dna ikivehsnem eht fo edutitta lacitilop eht detpoda seiranoitulover tsilaicos thgir spuorg lacidar eht yb dellac syawla drawretfa erew ohw seriasse eht . ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht ytrap wen a gnimrof dna 7191 fo llaf eht ni ytrap niam eht morf ffo gnikaerb slautcelletni yreif erom dna regnuoy eht ot del dna esualc noitasnepmoc eht nodnaba ot seriasse eht decrof stnasaep fo gnileef yranoitulover gnisaercni eht yllanif . noihsaf emos ni detasnepmoc eb ot srenwo eht ylno dnal ni ytreporp etavirp fo noitiloba eht rof doots ti emit taht ta . stsilaicos neeb reven dah ohw ynam yb denioj saw ti noitulover hcram eht retfa . stsirorret ehtsnoitasinagro gnithgif eht fo ytrap eht stnasaep eht fo ytrap yranoitulover eht yllanigiro . eman rieht fo slaitini eht morf seriasse dellac . ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos . 5 . deraeppasid ovtsnidey tated puoc kivehslob eht retfa . 
es litnu denoptsop neht tsugua rof desimorp neeb dah ecnerefnoc siht . smiaraw ssucsid ot ecnerefnoc a dloh seilla eht taht dednamed dah yeht . snoitidnocecaep naissur suomaf eht demialcorp dahseiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo lortnoc rednu neht teivos dargortep eht 7191 yam sa oga gnol sa . smret citarcomed no ecaep elbissop tseilrae eht fo ruovaf ni erew aissur ni seitrap tsilaicos lla yllaciteroeht . . . . ycilop ngierof fo noitseuq gninrub eht pu thguorb sirap ni ecnerefnoc deilla eht fo tnemecnuonna detiawagnol eht nehw noitautis eht saw siht . spuorg elbalicnocerri otni rebmahc eht dedivid ytilitsoh peed . sessam eht fo noitcafsitassid gnisir eht fo erusserp eht yb tfel eht ot decrof ylbitsiserri derevaw seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht spuorg owt eseht neewteb . . . . sessam citarcomed eht fo ecneicsnoc eht fo gninekawa eht deraperp evah sdnal 5191 ni dnalreztiws dlawremmiz ta dleh ecnerefnoc lanoitanretni eht ni noitapicitrap rieht fo esuaceb dellacos eporue fo stsilaicos eht
 redro ni aissur kcerw ot kootrednu yletarebiled truoc srast eht fo lortnoc ni seiranoitcaer tpurroc eht . 5191 sa kcab raf sa nageb hcihw ssecorp a fo tluser lacigol eht sa erofeb shtnom ynam tub 7191 ht7 rebmevon no desinagrosid ton erew ymra naissur eht dna efil cimonoce naissur taht dnatsrednu ot yrassecen si ti ikivehslob eht fo esir eht gniredisnoc ni . snoitaitogen ksvotil tserb eht fo emoctuo dna esruoc eht dna etats teivos eht fo erutcurts eht ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht fo noitulossid eht tnemitnes ralupop fo noitulove eht snoitasinagro yranoitulover eht fo snoitcnuf dna nigiro eht nialpxe i ereht . ecaep namreg eht gnidulcni dna ot pu noitulover eht fo esruoc eht ecart i ksvotiltserb ot volinrok emulov rehtona ni . ereh derewsna eb tonnac snoitseuq rehto ynam dna eseht drawretfa ti noipmahc yeht did yhw tnerappa emaceb msivehslob fo regnad eht litnu ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht desoppo eisioegruob eht fi dna drawretfa smra fo ecrof yb ti esrepsid yeht did yhw noitulover rebmevon eht erofeb ylbmessa tneuti
 rebotco litnu neht rebmetpes litnu denoptsop neht tsugua rof desimorp neeb dah ecnerefnoc siht . smiaraw ssucsid ot ecnerefnoc a dloh seilla eht taht dednamed dah yeht . snoitidnocecaep naissur suomaf eht demialcorp dahseiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo lortnoc rednu neht teivos dargortep eht 7191 yam sa oga gnol sa . smret citarcomed no ecaep elbissop tseilrae eht fo ruovaf ni erew aissur ni seitrap tsilaicos lla yllaciteroeht . . . . ycilop ngierof fo noitseuq gninrub eht pu thguorb sirap ni ecnerefnoc deilla eht fo tnemecnuonna detiawagnol eht nehw noitautis eht saw siht . spuorg elbalicnocerri otni rebmahc eht dedivid ytilitsoh peed . sessam eht fo noitcafsitassid gnisir eht fo erusserp eht yb tfel eht ot decrof ylbitsiserri derevaw seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht spuorg owt eseht neewteb . . . . sessam citarcomed eht fo ecneicsnoc eht fo gninekawa eht deraperp evah sdnal 5191 ni dnalreztiws dlawremmiz ta dleh ecnerefnoc lanoitanretni eht ni noitapicitrap rieht fo esuaceb dellac
lop ngierof fo noitseuq gninrub eht pu thguorb sirap ni ecnerefnoc deilla eht fo tnemecnuonna detiawagnol eht nehw noitautis eht saw siht . spuorg elbalicnocerri otni rebmahc eht dedivid ytilitsoh peed . sessam eht fo noitcafsitassid gnisir eht fo erusserp eht yb tfel eht ot decrof ylbitsiserri derevaw seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht spuorg owt eseht neewteb . . . . sessam citarcomed eht fo ecneicsnoc eht fo gninekawa eht deraperp evah sdnal 5191 ni dnalreztiws dlawremmiz ta dleh ecnerefnoc lanoitanretni eht ni noitapicitrap rieht fo esuaceb dellacos eporue fo stsilaicos eht fo gniw tsilanoitanretni yranoituolover eht fo srebmem eht lla ni ohw stsidlawremmiz esoht fo stnega namreg llac uoy mohw esoht fo krow eht neeb sah niav ni ton taht neht ees lliw uoy . . . . yaled tuohtiw desiar eb dluohs ecaep fo noitseuq eht . eisioegruob eht fo stseretni eht yb detatcid ycilop a elpoep naissur eht nopu esopmi ot gniyrt era uoy . . . . spuorg tsilairepmi tnereffid eht neewteb gniniagrab fo tcejbus eht semo
epsus sretsinim dessimsid erew slareneg . seettimmoc sreidlos eht yb detserra saw volinrok . dellepxe saw dna desufer seiranoitulover tsilaicos eht ytrap sih fo eettimmoc lartnec eht ot nialpxe ot denommus voknivas 1 . tces ii . ppa ees . noicipsus rednu saw yksnerek neve detacilpmi erew sretsinim tsilaicos eht fo emos . noitulover eht hsurc ot gnitpmetta yldlob eisioegruob eht fo tsif deliam eht delaever ylneddus saw mih dniheb . aissur fo rotatcid yratilim flesmih ekam ot dargortep no dehcram volinrok lareneg rebmetpes ni mrots gnimoc eht ii retpahc . . . . dellornu sessam naissur eht fo gnisir eht fo tnaegap eht taht noitargetnisid dna tnemref ni noitan elohw a fo dnuorgkcab siht tsniaga saw ti ecivres srast eht fo yrevil debircserp eht raew ton did eh esuaceb dettimda ton saw dna sehtolc nailivic ni yad eno etanes eht fo gniteem a ot emac noitulover fo edit lluf ni ohw volokos rotanes fo yrots eht si ereht . . . . enna . ts fo ssorc eht ylbissop dna noisnep elbatrofmoc a no tnemeriter fo tcepsorp eht htiw
eirtnuoc eseht lla ni dna . seilbmessa tneutitsnoc etarapes dednamed susacuac eht airebis . sselpleh saw tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht dnaynamreg htiw ecaep etarapes a ta detnih oknehctinniv reimerp . ymra lanoitan a fo noitamrof eht nageb dna slaru eht sa tsae raf sa aissur htuos fo sdnal larutlucirga tsehcir eht lla dedulcni yeht litnu eniarku fo seiradnuob eht dednetxe veik ta adar sioegruob eht . spoort naissur fo lawardhtiw eht dednamed dna suomonotua dnalnif deralced tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht ot yenom naol ot denilced etanes hsinnif eht srofgnisleh ta . dargortep morf sredro yebo ot gnisufer ymonotua demialc sessalc deitreporp eht yb dellortnoc stnemnrevog lacol eht . redlob emaceb dna htgnerts derehtag stnemevom tsilanoitan eht aissur etihw dnalop dnalnif ni eniarku ni . pu gnikaerb yldipar saw aissur dlo . . . . wocsom fo sreknab dna stnahcrem lufrewop eht yb dekcab saw ti dna ehzidrab dna voluarak votud slareneg volinrok nidelak ekil srenwodnal taerg dna selbon erew sredael sti . citsiratilim dna tsila
ht fo srebmem nosirp ni stnasaep derdnuh lareves tup veitneskva . seirotcaf dna spohs eht ni seettimmoc srekrow eht evlossid ot tpmetta na yb dehsinif dnadehsinif dna stiforp rieht fo 001 stsilatipac eht xat ot gniyrt yb decnemmoc veileboks . ymra eht ni tnemhsinup latipac fo devorppa dna sreidlos yranoitulover eht detamkcehc vestvolop lareneg fo ecnatsissa eht htiw nemkrow eht demrasid illeterest 3 . tces i . ppa ees. secivres rieht fo tsil a si ereh stsilaicos etaredom eht tsniaga elpoep eht fo sessam eht fo gnileef eht desserpxe sretsinim tsilaicos eht deltitne rebotco fo elddim eht tuoba yaw srekrow tup ihctobar ni elcitra na . reverof elpoep eht fo ecnedifnoc eht tsol seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht tluser a sa dna sessalc deitreporp eht htiw noitilaoc fo tnemnrevog a gnihsilbatse ni dedeeccus stsilaicos etaredom eht dna yksnerek yrtnuoc eht fo tnemitnes gnimlehwrevo eht tsniaga . sisirc a dehcaer srettam 7191 rebmetpes ni . ssalcgnikrow eht fo tnemnrevog a dna yrtsudni fo lortnoc srekrow dn
detcele snoitnevnoc eseht fo hcae . cte seitilanoitan sevitarepooc ecivres lavan dna yratilim eht fo hcnarb yreve sedisebseettimmoc teelf dna ymra seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf snoinu edart steivos stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo sessergnoc lanoitan erew ereht . dargortep ta dleh erew noitasinagro fo tros yreve fo snoitnevnoc naissurlla 7191 fo remmus dna gnirps eht ni seettimmoc lartnec . yvan eht ni snoitasinagro gnidnopserroc eht . seettimmoc teelf . 8 . spoort fo dnammoc eht neve sesac emos ni dna tnemtraped sretsamretrauq eht fo krow eht fo tsom seettimmoc ymra eht fo sredluohs eht nopu werht noitulover eht nopu tnedicni ymra eht ni nwodkaerb evitartsinimda eht . ffats lareneg eht htiw detarepooc eettimmoc ymra lartnec eht . eettimmoc ymra eht detcele saw hcihw fo lla revo eettimmoc sti dah sproc dna noisivid edagirb tnemiger ynapmoc yreve . sreciffo emiger dlo eht fo ecneulfni yranoitcaer eht tabmoc ot tnorf eht ta sreidlos eht yb demrof erew seettimmoc ymra eht . seettimmoc ymra . 7 . despalloc noitatropsnar
mem dna ytirojam eht fo srebmemikivehsnem dna ikivehslob seman eht gnarps siht morf . ovtsnihsnem ytironim eht dna ovtsnihslob ytirojam ehtsnoitcaf owt otni scitcat fo noitseuq eht no tilps ytrap eht 3091 ni dleh ssergnoc ytrap a ta . stsilaicos naixram yllanigiro . ytrap ruobal citarcomed laicos naissur . 4 . yksvokiahct vonahkehsep era koob siht ni sevitatneserper rieht . ytrap citsilanoitan a era stsilaicos tsilupop eht . tuo ekorb 7191 hcram fo noitulover eht nehw amud lairepmi eht ni ikivodurt eht fo redael eht saw yksnerek . sevitatneserper tnasaep fo ylegral desopmoc saw hcihw amud lairepmi htruof eht ni puorg ruobal eht fo noitidart gnisimorpmoc eht fo srotirehni tnecsed tcerid yb . cte srepeekpohs skrelceisioegruob yttep eht fo stseretni eht detroppus yllaer stsilupop eht stsilaicos eb ot gnisseforp . stnasaep evitavresnoc dna seiteicos evitarepooc eht fo sredael eht slautcelletni suoituac fo desopmoc ytrap llams a yllaciremun . puorg ruobal ikivodurt ro stsilaicos tsilupop . 3 . volavonok vozonail p
uq ecaep eht evlos ot nageb sreidlos eht elihwnaem . . . . ti rof wohs ot hguone elttil dna enog noitulover eht fo shtnom thgie erew ereh etar yna ta sdnamed rieht yfidom ot spahrephguone mlac erew elpoep eht litnu niaga denoptsop eb ylbaborp dluowdenoptsop dna denoptsop neeb dah ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht . yrtsudni fo lortnoc srekrow dna dnal ecaep ylbmessa tneutitsnoc on ro ylbmessa tneutitsnoc deveihca eb tsum taht dleif sram no evarg doohrehtorb krats rieht ni dettor srytram yranoitulover eht hcihw rof dna edam neeb dah noitulover naissur eht hcihw rof sgniht etinifed niatrec erew ereht tub doog dna llew lla saw ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht . taht htiw deifsitas ton erew sessam eht tub . rebmeced ni teem ot si hcihw ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht rof tiaw rewsna eno dah stsilaicos etaredom eht elpoep eht fo tnetnocsid mrofitlum eht ot . 5091 ni dettimmoc stca yranoitulover rof denosirpmi dna detucesorp erew segalliv rieht ot daorba morf denruter ohw nem sesac emos ni dna snezitic elbarisednu sa yrtnuoc eht morf dedu
 dedulcni s0391 dna s0291 eht morf sgnipilc repapswen fo rebmun a dah txet siht fo koob lanigiro eht eugolipe 453 782 182 972 672 452 152 722 422 502 481 661 401 69 94 64 33 egap era eseht . tamrof fdp ro ffit ni elbaliava era devlovni segap eht fo segami erehw 09mronmoc. seiticoeg. www erehwesle elbaliava era serugif eseht . koob lanigiro eht ni rebmun egap eht ot ecnerefer a yb detacidni era eseht . txet eht ni serugif cihparg 71 era ereht scihparg . ecaps a htiw enil hcae dne ot edam neeb sah tpmetta na tamrof gnissecorpdrow a ot noisrevnoc etatilicaf ot . elif etarapes a ni era sevlesmeht serugif eht . cte cihparg sa rebmun yb ot derrefer era eseht txet eht ni rucco scihparg fo rebmun a . sretcarahc 2707 si htgnel enil . retcarahc erocsrednu eht htiw txet cilati gnitekcarb yb detacidni neeb evah eseht dna scilati fo edam si esu larebil . txet koob eht gniwollof secidneppa eht sesehtnerap ni txet eht ni ot derrefer era noitces dna . on xidneppa eht elihw retpahc hcae fo dne eht ta dedulcni era setontoof eh
 . sredaelroolf yb detneserper era dna ydob a ni setov rieht tsac syawla tsomla hcihw snoitcaf lacitilop dna spuorg tnereffid eht fo sesucuac ni enod si noisses eht fo krow laer eht lla tsomla . srekaeps esingocer ot dna lleb elttil a gnignir yb redro peek ot gnieb rekaeps eht fo snoitcnuf ylno eht yllacitcarp gniteem eht slortnoc dworc eht . tcejbus yna no gnihtyna yas dna pu teg nac roolf eht morf ydobyna stnarg syawla tsomla dworc eht hcihw ycnegreme fo aelp eht no . ruoh flah tsrif eht ni seceip ot dehsams si yllausu dna eb nac ssenisub fo redro eht . yletarapes no detov eno hcae dna snoitcaf tnereffid eht yb dettimbus era snoituloser etabed eht fo esolc eht ta dna detabed neht dna yaw lareneg a ni detats si sorpov noitseuq hcae . met orp riahc eht ekat ot tnediserp eht yb nopu dellac eb nac srebmem sti dna ssenisub fo redro eht segnarra muidiserp eht . srebmun rieht ot noitroporp ni ylbmessa eht ni detneserper snoitcaf lacitilop dna spuorg eht fo sevitatneserper fo desopmoc eettimmoc gnidiserp a si muidi
b tsum rewop eht yhw gnillet saw tsitra na fo ecaf evitisnes eht htiw erugif ekiltneduts thgils a yksrahctanul . su ot denrutpu secaf elpmis fo ssam eht nopu swodniw noteleks eht hguorht thgil hsidder gnidoolf nus eht tsrub niaga dna won yks yvaeh llud eht hguorht . deciovrednuht dna tnetni sredrig ywodahs nopu hgih dehcrep skcirb dna rebmul fo selip no depaeh elpoep der ni depard gnidloffacs a dnuora dekcap nemow dna nem dehtolckcalb dnasuoht net gnidliub dehsinifnu eguh a fo sllaw kcirb tnuag eht neewteb ecalp koot gniteem eht . tkepsorp grublesslhcs eht no tuo tnalpsnoitinum tnemnrevog a dovaz yksvohkubo ot sehcruhc esnemmi dna seirotcaf krats neewteb dum fo snaeco hguorht derebmul taht mart maets yvaehpot a no tnew ew yadnus eno . raw livic fo tnemnrevog siht gnicnuoned yltneloiv seirotcaf dna skcarrab eht deruot srotaro kivehslob eht yad retfa yad . . . . steivos fo ssergnoc naissurlla eht tuoba gnirb dluoc tnemevomssam suoenatnops na ylno . shtnom esoht lla tnamrod serif yranoitulover fo ecafrus eht no 
isni na won . emmargorp tsilaicos mumixam eht fo noitacilppa etaidemmi eht gnidnamed tnemevom tnasaep lufrewop a saw ti nehw 5091 fo noitulover eht ni ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo toohsffo na . stsilamixam . b . veyagalak vokmak nilerak avonodirips sredael eht gnoma . sevlesmeht stnasaep eht yb noitisopsid rieht dna setatse dednal taerg eht fo noitasnepmoc tuohtiw noitacsifnoc rof gnidnats tnemnrevog teivos eht gnitroppus ytrap tnasaep taerg eht emaceb hcihw ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht denioj yeht srebmun gnisaercni ni seriasse eht fo sknar eht tfel stnasaep eht sa . denruter syawla tub semit lareves tnemnrevog eht morf werdhtiw yeht . erutlucirga fo taht yllaicepse soiloftrop tenibac eht gnirahs tnemnrevog teivos eht ni deniamer seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht revewoh . scitcat kivehslob sselhtur eht wollof ot tnatculer erew tsrif ta ssalcgnikrow eht fo pihsrotatcid fo emmargorp kivehslob eht gnirahs yllaciteroeht hguohtla . seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel . a . ayaksvokhserb akhcsubab v
sisni yeht ecneuqesnoc a sa . seicarcomed nretsew eht no stnemevorpmi emos htiw hguohtetats yratnemailrap a eb tsrif tsum aissur taht sessalc deitreporp eht htiw deerga yeht erofereht yllarutan . msilaicos degdelflluf otni dlrow eht fo tser eht htiw tsal ta egreme dna eporue nretsew ot nwonk tnempoleved cimonoce dna lacitilop fo segats eht hguorht ssap tsum aissur taht deveileb yeht . ti esu ot diarfa erew yeht rewop eht emussa ot decrof erew stsilaicos etaredom eht nehw taht dewollof ti os dna . emigr dlo eht erotser thgim tsinutroppo sselhtur emos hcihw fo snaem yb noitcaer a no gnirb ylbativeni dluow os od ot tpmetta yna rewop eht revo ekat ot hguone detacude ton erew sessam naissur eht noitaterpretni rieht ot gnidrocca . elbissop saw noitulover lacitilop a ylno tahtnoitulover laicos a rof epir yllacimonoce ton saw aissur taht deveileb seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht ylhguor . seiroeht rieht yb delppirc saw ecnatsiser fo rewop rieht tub sessalc deitreporp eht yb dekcatta osla erew spuorg eseht
t ni seettimmoc lartnec . yvan eht ni snoitasinagro gnidnopserroc eht . seettimmoc teelf . 8 . spoort fo dnammoc eht neve sesac emos ni dna tnemtraped sretsamretrauq eht fo krow eht fo tsom seettimmoc ymra eht fo sredluohs eht nopu werht noitulover eht nopu tnedicni ymra eht ni nwodkaerb evitartsinimda eht . ffats lareneg eht htiw detarepooc eettimmoc ymra lartnec eht . eettimmoc ymra eht detcele saw hcihw fo lla revo eettimmoc sti dah sproc dna noisivid edagirb tnemiger ynapmoc yreve . sreciffo emiger dlo eht fo ecneulfni yranoitcaer eht tabmoc ot tnorf eht ta sreidlos eht yb demrof erew seettimmoc ymra eht . seettimmoc ymra . 7 . despalloc noitatropsnart dna ecremmoc fo erutcurts dlo eht nehw aissur def hcihw sevitarepooc eht saw ti revewoh . noitulover kivehslob eht litnu ecrof lacitilop evitavresnoc a sa detca dna seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem stsilaicos tsilupop yb detanimod erew dna yldipar daerps sevitarepooc eht noitulover hcram eht retfa . srekrow eht fo sdnah eht otni noitubirtsid dna noi
hguor woh ees . dekramer ehs ssergnoc dzeis tsrif eht ot setageled eht morf elpoep tnereffid yrev snoitanalpxe dna seton ees era eseht . ylsuoutpmetnoc delimspuorg ovtsnidey svonahkelp fo rebmem aegrahc ni lrig eht . stnasaep deriahgnol wef a sesuolb kcalb ni nemkrow sreidlos dedraeb ylrubni emoc setageled wen eht gnihctaw ereht doots i . steivos fo ssergnoc eht rof eettimmoc slaitnederc eht fo eciffo eht saw edistuo llah eht ssorca tsuj . . . . sessehcud dnarg rof gnittes a smrofinu lacitsaiselcce dna yratilim tnaillirb deknab neeb dah snoisacco latsef no ereh . tuc neeb dah tiartrop lairepmi eht hcihw morf dniheb emarf dlog a dna sdradnats thgil dehcnarbynam llat owt htiw deknalf siad a dne eno ta snmuloc evissam fo swor owt yb dedivid dna sblub cirtcele etanro fo sderdnuh gnidloh sreilednahc etihwdezalg yb dethgil moor etihw ytfol a . etutitsni eht fo moorllab remrof eht sgniteem fo llah taerg eht saw roolf dnoces eht no gniw htuos eht ni . . . . aet fo sessalg sseldne dna derettub ylkciht daerb dah eb dlu
dal saw nihtiw taht ybressap eht gnimrofni llits seuqalp dellemane srood rieht no erab dna etihw smoor eguh derdnuh a naht erom erew nihtiw . sreidlos dna srekrow fo snoitasinagro yranoitulover eht yb revo nekat neeb dah etutitsni eht flesreh anirast eht yb desinortap ytilibon naissur eht fo srethguad eht rof loohcstnevnoc suomaf a emigr dlo eht rednu . . . . ecnartne eht revo tnelosni llits enots ni yleguh devrac smra lairepmi eht hgih seirots ytfol eerht dna gnol sdray derdnuh owt etutitsni ynloms fo edaaf ekil skcarrab taerg eht ti ediseb dna lufituaeb dlog llud ni deniltuo tnevnoc ynloms fo salopuc eulbekoms lufecarg eht esor enil eht fo dne eht ta . elpoep htiw demmaj dna steerts yddum delbboc eht hguorht esion gninaorg a htiw ekillians gnivom racteerts a no ereht tnew i . aven ediw eht ediseb ytic eht fo egde eht no tuo selim yal teivos dargortep eht fo dna hakeeyast eht fo sretrauqdaeh etutitsni ynloms . skramer lacinori htiw gnitpurretni yldloc mih draeh ylbmessa eht . dne eht ta sraet otni gnitsrub e
 detca dna seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem stsilaicos tsilupop yb detanimod erew dna yldipar daerps sevitarepooc eht noitulover hcram eht retfa . srekrow eht fo sdnah eht otni noitubirtsid dna noitcudorp fo snaem fo ecnerefsnart etelpmoc eht rof etutitsbus a saw ti esuaceb spuorg tsilaicos yranoitulover eht yb detroppus ton saw tnemevom evitarepooc eht stsilaicos etaredom dna slarebil yb dednuof . noitulover eht erofeb aissur revo lla srebmem noillim lareves dah hcihw seiteicos evitarepooc sremusnoc stnasaep dna srekrow eht erew eseht . sevitarepooc . 6 . steivos eht htiw etepmoc ton dluoc yeht samud ytic eht ekil tub . stcirtsid larur eht ni tnemnrevog lacol fo snagro eht meht gnikam ot weiv a htiw dezitarcomed erew sovtsmez eht noitulover hcram eht retfa . tnorf eht ta . a . c . m . y nacirema eht fo krow eht ot gnidnopserroc yllareneg sreidlos eht gnoma krow dna seirtnuoc ngierof morf gniyub eht sa llew sa ymra naissur eht fo gnihtolc dna gnideef eritne eht revo koot yllaudarg sovtsmez eht raw eht
nepo na dedulcnoc voknivas . teid hsinnif eht fo noitulossid eht gniredro tsefinam lairepmi eht dengis vonrehct . srepapswen sreidlos dna srekrow fo snezod desserppus dna seettimmoc dnal eht fo srebmem nosirp ni stnasaep derdnuh lareves tup veitneskva . seirotcaf dna spohs eht ni seettimmoc srekrow eht evlossid ot tpmetta na yb dehsinif dnadehsinif dna stiforp rieht fo 001 stsilatipac eht xat ot gniyrt yb decnemmoc veileboks . ymra eht ni tnemhsinup latipac fo devorppa dna sreidlos yranoitulover eht detamkcehc vestvolop lareneg fo ecnatsissa eht htiw nemkrow eht demrasid illeterest 3 . tces i . ppa ees. secivres rieht fo tsil a si ereh stsilaicos etaredom eht tsniaga elpoep eht fo sessam eht fo gnileef eht desserpxe sretsinim tsilaicos eht deltitne rebotco fo elddim eht tuoba yaw srekrow tup ihctobar ni elcitra na . reverof elpoep eht fo ecnedifnoc eht tsol seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht tluser a sa dna sessalc deitreporp eht htiw noitilaoc fo tnemnrevog a gnihsilbatse ni dedeeccus stsilaicos et
ht slautcelletni suoituac fo desopmoc ytrap llams a yllaciremun . puorg ruobal ikivodurt ro stsilaicos tsilupop . 3 . volavonok vozonail puorg eht fo lacipyt . noitasinagro cimonocenopaew nwo rieht yb thguof eb tsum steivos eht taht esilaer ot hguone tnegilletni erew ohw srerutcafunam dna stnahcrem sreknab nredom erom eht fo desopmoc saw ti . nigluhs dna oknaizdor ekil nem erew sredael lautcelletni sti hguohtla nasitrapnon flesti deralced puorg eht . tenibac yksnerek tsal eht ni soiloftrop nevig erew nem cilbup fo puorg eht morf setageled . wocsom ni demrof saw nem cilbup fo puorg eht noituloverretnuoc volinrok eht htiw snoitaler rieht hguorht ralupopnu emoceb dah stedac eht retfa . nem cilbup fo puorg . a2 . ykstahs revaniv vokuilim era koob siht ni sevitatneserper sti . evitavresnoc erom dna erom werg stedac eht noitulover cimonoce laicos a erom dna erom emaceb noitulover eht sa . tnemnrevog srast eht fo smia citsilairepmi eht gnidulcni smia citsilairepmi deilla fo ruovaf ni flesti deralced ti esuaceb lirpa
c eht snoitatsefinam sti lla ni . dediar vokrahk ta noinu srenim laoc eht fo sretrauqdaeh eht dna skcassoc demra yb desrepsid erew grubniretakey dna nodnovotsor fo steivos eht . etats kcassoc tnednepedni na flesti deralced nabuk eht . dehsilbatse neeb dah cilbuper kcassoc a ekil yrev gnihtemos nod eht ni . elpoep kcassoc eerf eht fo sevitatneserper sa yldlob mih htiw gnitaert rodassabma hsitirb eht nopu dellac noissim kcassoc rehtona emit emas eht ta . lla ta tsixe yeht taht elbatterger ti sredisnoc ti tub steivos eht nopu dneped ton ti seod ylno ton tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht rof sa . . . . tnaryt a dna topsed a ma i sredael teivos eht fo seye eht ni dias evah ot detroper si neht dna enola nidelak tel ot deerga yksnerek . steivos eht ot gnidleiy rof tnediserpretsinim eht gnihcaorper dna deppord eb nidelak tsniaga segrahc eht taht gnitsisni yltnagorra yksnerek nopu dellac noitageled kcassoc a rebotco fo trap tsrif eht ni . . . . steivos eht fo noitces kcassoc demrofylwen eht lagelli eralced ot dna seimra kcas
psog fo stnemecnuonna htiw sllaw eht deretsalp yrotsih ni emit tsrif eht rof aissur ot dettimda ymra noitavlas eht dna . stsihposoeht rof nosaes evitca ylralucitrap a saw ti . seihposolihp ysae eht dna erutaretil tra no serutcel raeh ot tnew aiztnegilletni elamef eht fo sedroh . sgnitniap fo snoitibihxe ylkeew erew ereht wocsom ot detaucave neeb dah seirellag erutcip rehto dna egatimreh eht hguohtla . negier srelztinhcs fo noisrev suoutpmus a degats olakrez eyovirk eht . . . . desare lla selgae sti htiw xob lairepmi ytpme eht decaf dna stca eht neewteb yltcerroc pu doots ohw mrofinu sserd sih ni segap fo loohcs lairepmi eht fo tneduts a gniciton rebmemer i ecnamrofrep taht ta dna elbirret eht navi fo htaed syotslot fo noitcudorp sdlohreyem gniviver erew yeht yksnirdnaxela eht ta . gnignis saw nipailahs . reh ees ot gnimoc aissur gnivolecnad lla yksniram eht ta tellab wen a ni deraeppa anivasrak . syadnus gnidulcni thgin yreve gniog erew sertaeht eht lla esruoc fo . . . . dworc naissur eht fo erutandoog suoluc
t ylppa yeht ymene eht ot su yarteb yeht seettimmoc ruo htiw krow ton lliw sreciffo eht yrellitra nairebis htxisytrof eht rof . . . . ymra eht troppus ro raw eht dne tnemnrevog eht tel rehtie . . . seilppus ro ecaep . sehcnert ytpme ylno tfel eb lliw ereht noos ro stnemecrofnier dna stoob dna doof su evig tsum yeht . ynapmoc hcae ni tfel nem wef a ylno evah ew kaew era ew ymra hthgie eht rof namsekops eht . emoh og dna sehcnert eht evael dluow ymra eht ecaep teg ot troffe citegrene na ekam ton did tnemnrevog eht fi taht gniralced raw eht ot dne na rof gniruomalc lla srekaeps reidlos ssel dne srenrocteerts eht no seirotcaf eht skcarrab eht ni ti rof thgif llew dna rof thgif ot gnihtemos evah ew wonk llew neht steivos eht ot rewop eht dna srekrow eht ot seirotcaf eht dna stnasaep eht ot sgnoleb dnal eht nehw . em ecrof ot tnemhsinup latipac tuohtiw thgif dna tuo og lli neht noitulover eht gnidnefed ma i taht em ot evorp nac uoy fi srerednulp tsilatipac eht ti si ro ycarcomed eht ti si aissur eerf ti si ro elpon
w ereht tub noilattab htaed eht sa dlrow eht ot nwonk si noilattab snemow eht . snoilattab kcohs ro . snoilattab htaed . erafraw ni ytleurc egavas rieht dna ecneidebo dnilb rieht rof deton erew istnihket eht . volinrok lareneg ot detoved yllanosrep dna aisa lartnec morf nemsebirt natemahom fo pu edam ymra eht ni noisivid egavas dellacos eht . istnihket . stneduts ytisrevinu erew meht fo ynam taerg a . ti hsiloba ot tpmetta kivehslob eht morf ytreporp etavirp dnefed ot noitulover eht fo segats tsal eht ni degreme ohw sreetnulov sioegruob . sdraug etihw . laez yranoitulover fo lluf tub denilpicsidnu dna deniartnu steerts eht no deraeppa sdraug der eht noitulover eht ni sisirc taerg yreve ta . lufsseccusnu ssel ro erom erew meht mrasid ot tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht fo stroffe lla dna demra erew yeht emit taht ta . ytic eht ni redro peek ot dedeen saw ecrof a nehw 7191 hcram fo syad eht ni niaga ecnetsixe otni gnarps dna 5091 fo noitulover eht gnirud demrof tsrif erew sdraug der eht . aissur fo srekrow yrotcaf de
n nzihz ayavon eht dellac osla . stsilanoitanretni starcomed laicos detinu . d . yksrahctanul ykztort ninel sredael eht gnoma . b5 hpargarap ees . puorg etarapes a era stsilamixam eht . tsilamixam yb detalsnart eb ton nac kivehslob eman eht . stnasaep roop eht fo noitces egral a fo osla tub srekrow yrotcaf eht fo ylfeihc serised eht sesserpxe ytrap siht . snoitutitsni laicnanif dna secruoser larutan dnal yrtsudni revo gnikat ylbicrof yb msilaicos fo gnimoc eht netsah ot redro ni tnemnrevog fo snier eht fo eruzies dna noitcerrusni nairatelorp etaidemmi desoporp ikivehslob eht . seirtnuoc lla ni stsilaicos ytirojam dellacos eht dna ikivehsnem eht setanimod hcihw msilaicos yratnemailrap ro etaredom fo noitidart eht morf noitarapes etelpmoc rieht esisahpme ot redro ni ytrap tsinummoc eht sevlesmeht llac won . ikivehslob . c . vonitram votram sredael rieht gnoma . puorg siht fo rebmem a gnol saw ykztort . ikivehslob eht yb detacovda ssalcgnikrow eht fo pihsrotatcid eht ot desoppo dna ikivehsnem evitavresnoc eht mo
a sreidlos srekrow eht fo ytirojam eht fo dnim fo etats eht noitaredisnoc otni gnikat ton taht neppah ylisae yam ti . regnad taerg a meht htiw yrrac sevlesmeht sruomur eseht tub . . . . ti htiw od ot gnihtyna evah yeht taht deined hakeeyast eht ni meht ot desserdda noitseuq a ot ikivehslob eht noitcerrusni hcaerp ohw srotatiga eseht sesirohtua noitasinagro tahw sruomur eseht fo ecruos eht si tahw . einnelputsyv dednetni na fo nwot eht dnuora gnidaerps era sruomur niaga ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo noitces yratilim eht morf siht ecnatsni rof . srotatiga ot netsil ot ton sreidlos dna srekrow eht gnirolpmi snoitartsnomed yna gnicnuoned hakeeyast eht dna snoitcaf evitavresnoc dna etaredom eht fo seettimmoc lartnec eht morf slaeppa snoitamalcorp 01 . tces ii . ppa ees sgninraw htiw derevoc erew sllaw eht cigam yb fi sa . ngiapmac fo nalp kivehslob terces eht laever ot desseforp hcihw pam a yb deinapmocca yrots lanoitasnes a dehsilbup yad neid kivehsnem eht ni vossertop . sruomur eht yned ot ikivehslob eht 
o no . seituped sgodvotatuped hkihctabas sa votatuped hkihctobar seituped srekrow fo steivos eht ot refer ot aiztnegilletni sioegruob gnoma gniht lausu eht saw ti . noelopan naissur a rof hgis ot nageb srepapswen niatrec . rorepme eht gnitlusni rof srotca eht hcnyl ot denetaerht ohw stsihcranom fo puorg a yb detpurretni saw rast eht fo snis dellac euqselrub a elpmaxe rof dargortep ni ertaeht ecraf ykstiort eht ta 5 . tces i . ppa ees. ecnedifnoc gniniag erew noitcaer fo secrof eht taht erehwyreve sngis erew ereht emit emas eht ta . seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht noitcaf lacitilop wen a demrof dna ffo tilps seiranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo gniw tfel eht nehw rebotco ni ylraelc flesti dewohs ti . gnimrof saw gniw yranoitulover a stnasaep eht gnoma neve tub . . . . stnasaep eht gnoma detatiga dah hcihw ytrap eht noitareneg a rof neeb dah ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht dna ylwols depoleved ssensuoicsnoc lacitilop stcirtsid larur hsigguls eht ni esuaceb evitavresnoc llits deniamer steivos stnasaep eht . sro
isivorp eht ot nevenoitulover eht ot snamreg eht derreferp sessalc deitreporp eht fo noitces egral a . . . . sevitomocol gnilppirc fo tca eht ni srekrow eht yb thguac slaiciffo daorliar fo tfel yeht nehw redro fo tuo yrenihcam eht tup sreenigne esohw wocsom ta seirotcaf elitxet fo srenwo rieht yb dedoolf dna derif erew hcihw vokrahk raen senimlaoc niatrec fo wonk i . egdelwonk nwo sih morf siht demrifnoc noitnem ot ton desimorp i eman esohw tamolpid deilla na . noitulover eht tidercsid ot ngiapmac a fo trap saw efil cimonoce syrtnuoc eht fo nwodkaerb eht taht em dlot ytrap tedac eht fo hcnarb dargortep eht fo yraterces eht . seettimmoc sreidlos eht htiw noitarepooc ot retsasid yratilim derreferp ylknarf ohw tnorf nrehtron eht no sreciffo tem yllanosrep evah i tub . hctip a hcus ot poleved dluohs raw ssalc eht taht elbidercni si ti snacirema ot 9191 . y. n thgirevil dna inob . deer nhoj yb ksovtiltserb ot volinrok ees ytud sti fo esnes a ot yrtnuoc eht gnignirb fo ecirp eht agir htiw yap ew tsum ylcilbup dias 
sruomur od ikivehslob eht dluow tahw . . . ekat thgim sreidlos dna srekrow eht noitca revetahw tesffo dna ht31 rebmeced teem ot ssergnoc stnasaep a rof llac ycnegreme na deussi steivos stnasaep eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe eht emit emas eht ta . elbissop sa setageled tsilaicos etaredom ynam sa tcele ot snoitasinagro laicnivorp rieht ot yllacitnarf eriw ot nageb dna scitcat rieht degnahc ylneddus detaefed erew yeht taht gnisilaer seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht dna desuora won saw yrtnuoc elohw eht tub . ht7 eht ot denoptsop saw ssergnoc eht fo gninepo eht os 2 rebmevon yb rehtegot emoc ton dluow murouq a taht tnedive saw ti . . . . gnimoc era syad taerg . . . . seil eseht ot noitnetta on yap . . . . dargortep evael retteb dah setageled taht dna ecalp ekat ton lliw ti taht gnitressa yb ssergnoc eht pu kaerb ot eettimmoc gnisinagro eht fo srebmem niatrec fo stpmetta ot dellac si ssergnoc naissurlla wen eht ot setageled fo noitnetta eht dias tadlos i ihctobar . . . . staes ruoy teg uoy taht ees llew s
i . ppa ees nemkrow eht dna dnal eht gninrecnoc snoitaluger tnemnrevog tuo yrrac ot gniyrt rof deliaj gnieb erew stnasaep eht yb detcele seettimmoc dnal eht raer eht ni sgnieb namuh ekil nem rieht gnitaert ot desu teg ton dluoc ohw sreciffo fo luof gninnur syawla erew seettimmoc ymra eht tnorf eht no . tuo deyalp tey ton saw tca tsrif eht taht gnileef nrobbuts a saw ereht revewoh sessam tnasaep dna reidlos rekrow eht gnoma . . . . stiurf eht rehtag ton lliw gnol oot tsal ti sekam ohw eh . noitulover eht etanimret ot sdneirf netsah su tel ti tup tsinoitulover taerg a sa . elbissop sa yldipar sa ti yalp ot dna dnoces eht ot no og ot emit si ti won . hguone gnol detsal sah tca tsrif eht . eno wen eht fo noitaerc eht dna emigr dlo eht fo noitcurtsed eht stca owt sah noitulover fo amard eht dias stsilaicos etaredom eht fo nagro laiciffo eht ht41 rebotco no . yksnerek fo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht detroppus ohw seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem 1 . tces i . ppa ees istnorobo eht spuorg tsilaicos etaredom tna
 syad eht ni niaga ecnetsixe otni gnarps dna 5091 fo noitulover eht gnirud demrof tsrif erew sdraug der eht . aissur fo srekrow yrotcaf demra eht . sdraug der snoitasinagro rehto . eman sti fo slaitini eht morf dellac os . noinu srekrow yawliar eht fo eettimmoc lartnec naissurlla . lehzkiv . eettimmoc teelf lartnec ehtteelfertnec . tolfortnest . eman sti fo slaitini eht morf dellac os . seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo steivos eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe lartnec naissurlla . hakeeyast . steivos eht fo ytirohtua eht tsniaga ekirts no tnew ohw seeyolpme tnemnrevog eht detinu dna gnisirpu kivehslob eht desoppo snoinu fo noinu eht revewoh 7191 ni ycarcomed yranoitulover eht htiw detca snoinu fo noinu eht 5091 ni . snoinu fo noinu eht noitasinagro lartnec eno rednu detinu erew eseht . cte snaicisyhp sreywal srotcodnem lanoisseforp fo snoinu dehsilbatse slarebil rehto dna vokuilim rosseforp 5091 fo noitulover eht gnirud . snoinu fo noinu era koob siht ni denoitnem seettimmoc lartnec tnatropmi tsom eht . srewop evita
uoy taht ees llew semoc emit eht nehw dias eh dnim reven . dennirg ylpmis eettimmoc lartnec kivehslob eht fo rebmem nahkarak . detcele yllagelli neeb dah yeht taht dnuorg eht no etageled retfa etageled gnignellahc saw hakeeyast dlo eht yb detnioppa eettimmoc slaitnederc eht . won tsomreppu emac hcihw mottob eht saw ti dna derrits neeb dah aissur fo shtped eht eurt saw ti . . . . elpoep krad eht kool yeht tnarongi dna hguor woh ees . dekramer ehs ssergnoc dzeis tsrif eht ot setageled eht morf elpoep tnereffid yrev snoitanalpxe dna seton ees era eseht . ylsuoutpmetnoc delimspuorg ovtsnidey svonahkelp fo rebmem aegrahc ni lrig eht . stnasaep deriahgnol wef a sesuolb kcalb ni nemkrow sreidlos dedraeb ylrubni emoc setageled wen eht gnihctaw ereht doots i . steivos fo ssergnoc eht rof eettimmoc slaitnederc eht fo eciffo eht saw edistuo llah eht ssorca tsuj . . . . sessehcud dnarg rof gnittes a smrofinu lacitsaiselcce dna yratilim tnaillirb deknab neeb dah snoisacco latsef no ereh . tuc neeb dah tiartrop lairepmi eh
gis . . . . roolf nedoow eht no rednuht tnassecni dna peed a edam stoob yvaeh rieht fo dnuos eht . stros lla fo adnagaporp detnirp snoitamalcorp srepapswen fo seldnub eguh fo thgiew eht rednu tneb emos nemkrow dna sreidlos fo sepahs gniyrruh htiw degnorht erew sthgil cirtcele erar yb til srodirroc detluav gnol eht . . . . seitrap lacitilop eht fo smoorsucuac dna seciffo lartnec eht dna eettimmoc ymra lartnec seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf snoinu edart naissurlla eht fo eettimmoc lartnec sreidlos tsilaicos fo noinu sriaffa ngierof fo uaerub dna hakeeyast dna teivos dargortep eht fo eettimmoc lartnec redro wen eht fo ytilativ eht fo ecnedive sngis derettelyledurc gnuh eseht revo tub uaerub srehcaet ro 4 rebmun moorssalc seidal saw nihtiw taht ybressap eht gnimrofni llits seuqalp dellemane srood rieht no erab dna etihw smoor eguh derdnuh a naht erom erew nihtiw . sreidlos dna srekrow fo snoitasinagro yranoitulover eht yb revo nekat neeb dah etutitsni eht flesreh anirast eht yb desinortap ytilibon naissur eht fo srethgua
etam war dna leuf dna nwod tuhs erew stnalp seettimmoc pohs yrotcaf eht hsurc ot dekovorp selbuort lanretni dna desinagrosid saw noitatropsnart steivos eht dna yrtsinim yksnerek eht kcerw ot redro ni . serusaem etarepsed ot detroser yllanif sessalc deitreporp eht dne siht ot . noitulover eht tlah ot dna meht yortsed ot kootrednu snoitasinagro yranoitulover ralupop eht fo rewop ni htworg eht desilaer yeht nehw ohw sessalc deitreporp eht saw ti revewoh . msivehslob fo skcatta laturb eht tsniaga stnemele elbatcepser eht fo elggurts a ylpmis saw noitulover naissur eht fo esahp tsal eht taht gniugra yb tnemnrevog teivos eht ot ytilitsoh rieht nialpxe sretirw ynam . aissur fo noitareneger laicos dna lacitilop eht rof saedi rieht htiw elpoep gnikrow eht ot denrut evah ohw ssalc detacude yranoitulover yllauqe eht fo trap egral a fo tub tsdim rieht ni slaudividni tnegilletni fo ylno ton pihsredael fo egatnavda eht dah evah yeht taht noitidnoc debrutsid a hcus ni neeb sah yrtnuoc eht sraey ynam rof . etirw dna daer ot 
aet ragus daerb etihw fo ecnadnuba na dah eh sdrac daerb rieht no daerb kcalb fo dnuop retrauq a tog elpoep eht fo sessam eht elihw os dna . dedeen eh gnihtyreve mih dehsinruf sevitarepooc eht taht noitidnoc noseiteicos evitarepooc lacol eht deilppus hcihw yrotcaf etalocohc a ni tseretni gnillortnoc a denwo driht eht . dnalnif ni seitrap suoiretsym ot senim anel eht morf dlog lagelli dlos rehtona . sffutsdoof ni delbmag eno . ecivres yratilim fo tuo yaw rieht debirb dah snos eerht eht . ti llac snaissur eht luohg tidnab roidaramrotaluceps denrut ylimaf tnahcrem a wenk i nwot laicnivorp a ni . meht yub dluoc hcir eht ylno tub gnihtolc dna doof fo snot erew seitic egral eht fo serots eht lla ni . neetriht diap dargortep ni remusnoc eht dna dnuop a selbur owt rof kotsovidalv ni elaselohw thguob saw eeffoc tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht ni seilppus fo retsinim tsal eht fo troper laiciffo eht ot gnidrocca . . . . htnom eno rof ytic eht deef ot hguone naht ssel ot nellaf dah niarg fo noisivorp sraeyowt eht litnu dargor
 oga gnol sa desselb eht salohcin fo ngier eht ni nugeb ecitcarp eht ot flesreh demotsucca dah aissur . eueuq ni gnidnats fo ytlucaf rieht yb srehto lla evoba dehsiugnitsid sa elpoep hcnerf eht debircsed sah noitulover hcnerf sih ni elylrac . . . . smra rieht ni seibab htiw emos nemow yltsom nwad erofeb mrof ot gninnigeb liat tsovk eht nees evah i gniteem thginlla na morf emoh gnimoc . niar llihc eht ni sruoh gnol eueuq ni dnats ot dah eno occabot dna ragus dna daerb dna klim rof . . . . renrocteerts eht no eceipa elbur a naht ssel elttil a rof dlos sraep dna selppa nosaes tiurf eht ni . shtnom rof ti was reven sesuoh etavirp dna sletoh tsom ytic eht ni seibab eht flah tuoba rof klim saw ereht . rallod a tsael taselbur net ot neves morf erehwyna tsoc ydnac sseletsat fo dnuop a ro etalocohc fo rab a . modles saw hcihw lla ta ti teg dluoc eno fihtnom a sdnuop owt fo etar eht ta ot deltitne saw eno ragus . lla ta daerb yna tuohtiw keew a saw ereht dne eht drawot . dnuopretrauq a dna flah sretrauq eerht neht dnuo
 eht fo daetsni tuohguorht radnelac ruo koob siht ni detpoda evah i gnilleps dna ygolonorhc . seituped stnasaep fo steivos eht fo smia yranoitulover dna rewop gniworg eht thgif ot stnasaep suorepsorp erom eht fo noisserpxe lacitilop eht emoceb dah ti revewoh 7191 ni . noitasinagro stnasaep yranoitulover a saw noinu stnasaep eht 5091 ni . noinu stnasaep . aedi yratilim eht fo sretroppus eht fo taht saw noitasinagro eht ni ecneulfni tnanimoderp eht . egroeg . ts fo thgink a emaceb yllacitamotua redloh sti . elttab ni noitca dehsiugnitsid rof dedrawa saw egroeg . ts fo ssorc eht . egroeg . ts fo sthgink . seettimmoc ymra eht fo rewop gniworg eht yllacitilop tabmoc ot ymra eht ni sreciffo yranoitcaer eht gnoma demrof noitasinagro na . sreciffo fo noinu . sessalc deitreporp eht fo snos eht gnoma morf trap tsom eht rof emac eseht . stoirtap gnuoy esnetni fo yltsom desopmoc erew snoilattab htaed eht . elpmaxe cioreh yb ymra eht fo erif evitabmoc dna enilpicsid eht gninehtgnerts fo esoprup eht rof yksnerek yb 7191 fo
ht saw ti dna derrits neeb dah aissur fo shtped eht eurt saw ti . . . . elpoep krad eht kool yeht tnarongi dna hguor woh ees . dekramer ehs ssergnoc dzeis tsrif eht ot setageled eht morf elpoep tnereffid yrev snoitanalpxe dna seton ees era eseht . ylsuoutpmetnoc delimspuorg ovtsnidey svonahkelp fo rebmem aegrahc ni lrig eht . stnasaep deriahgnol wef a sesuolb kcalb ni nemkrow sreidlos dedraeb ylrubni emoc setageled wen eht gnihctaw ereht doots i . steivos fo ssergnoc eht rof eettimmoc slaitnederc eht fo eciffo eht saw edistuo llah eht ssorca tsuj . . . . sessehcud dnarg rof gnittes a smrofinu lacitsaiselcce dna yratilim tnaillirb deknab neeb dah snoisacco latsef no ereh . tuc neeb dah tiartrop lairepmi eht hcihw morf dniheb emarf dlog a dna sdradnats thgil dehcnarbynam llat owt htiw deknalf siad a dne eno ta snmuloc evissam fo swor owt yb dedivid dna sblub cirtcele etanro fo sderdnuh gnidloh sreilednahc etihwdezalg yb dethgil moor etihw ytfol a . etutitsni eht fo moorllab remrof eht sgniteem fo llah taerg eht
srolias dna sreidlos eht yortsed ot yvan dna ymra eht ni serusaem nrets dednamed yeht . cilbuper a aissur eralced ot thgir lagel on dah tnemnrevog eht taht deralced stedac eht . tnagorra emaceb rewop fo noitisop a ni won sessalc deitreporp eht . licnuoc detaflli eht ot ytilliuqnart gnirb ton did revewoh ikivehslob eht fo lawardhtiw eht 4 . tces ii . ppa ees . elpoep eht ot nosaert fo tnemnrevog a ni etapicitrap ton dluow yeht taht gnitats cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht morf werdhtiw yeht emit emas eht ta . aissur fo tnemnrevog eht revo ekat dna 2 rebmevon no dargortep ta teem ot steivos naissurlla eht gninommus yb dednopser ikivehslob eht . steivos eht . e. isnoitasinagro elbisnopserri fo noitadiuqil eht ycilop sti fo trap sa decnuonna tnemnrevog wen eht oot emit siht ta . . . devlossid eb noos thgim yeht taht dna 3 . tces ii . ppa ees dne na ta ylraen saw steivos eht fo noitcnuf eht taht tnih ot nageb swen aitseivzi nagro laiciffo sti . dellac eb ot ti gniwolla fo ro ssergnoc siht gnillac fo noitnetni o
ht fo seitrap eht lla tub smra fo ecrof yb detsiser eb tsum yeht yrassecen fi taht dna noitulover eht yortsed ot gnitpmetta erew seiranoitcaer eht taht ikivehslob eht htiw deerga nzihz ayavon repap sykrog . ercassam kivehslob lareneg a detacovda sur ayavon sa steehs hcus . ssergnoc eht fo gniteem eht tneverp ot tsael ta ro teivos dargortep eht tserra ot tnemnrevog eht degru dna noitcerrusni deisehporp sserp yranoitcaer dna sioegruob eht . sreidlos dna srekrow eht fo tuo gnimoceinnelputsyv a noitartsnomed demra na eb dluow ereht taht ytic eht hguorht nar sruomur od ikivehslob eht dluow tahw . . . ekat thgim sreidlos dna srekrow eht noitca revetahw tesffo dna ht31 rebmeced teem ot ssergnoc stnasaep a rof llac ycnegreme na deussi steivos stnasaep eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe eht emit emas eht ta . elbissop sa setageled tsilaicos etaredom ynam sa tcele ot snoitasinagro laicnivorp rieht ot yllacitnarf eriw ot nageb dna scitcat rieht degnahc ylneddus detaefed erew yeht taht gnisilaer seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna iki
 elpoep eht ot nosaert fo tnemnrevog a ni etapicitrap ton dluow yeht taht gnitats cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht morf werdhtiw yeht emit emas eht ta . aissur fo tnemnrevog eht revo ekat dna 2 rebmevon no dargortep ta teem ot steivos naissurlla eht gninommus yb dednopser ikivehslob eht . steivos eht . e. isnoitasinagro elbisnopserri fo noitadiuqil eht ycilop sti fo trap sa decnuonna tnemnrevog wen eht oot emit siht ta . . . devlossid eb noos thgim yeht taht dna 3 . tces ii . ppa ees dne na ta ylraen saw steivos eht fo noitcnuf eht taht tnih ot nageb swen aitseivzi nagro laiciffo sti . dellac eb ot ti gniwolla fo ro ssergnoc siht gnillac fo noitnetni on dah ti . rebmetpes ni eud steivos fo ssergnoc naissurlla rehtona llac ot desufer yllagelli dah dna steivos eht fo elif dna knar eht detneserper regnol on hakeeyast eht taht si tcaf eht . staes fo rebmun etanoitroporpsid a deipucco yeht cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht ni dna dellortnoc yllacitcarp sessalc deitreporp eht yrtsinim wen eht ni . cilbuper nai
wen a ylno taht detsisni raw fo retsinim yksvohkrev lareneg dna eniram fo retsinim elbarenev eht yksveredrev larimda niav ni . yvan eht dna ymra eht ni enilpicsid erotser ot detpoda eb serusaem hsrah taht dednamed stedac yb dekcab nem yratilim emigr dlo eht . yksnerek yb devlossid saw dna ruobal dna latipac fo secrof gnisoppo eht neewteb kcoldaed a ot emac yrtnuoc eht fo efil cimonoce derettahs eht dliuber ot dehsilbatse licnuoc cimonoce eht dargortep ni . teivos eht desserppus seitirohtua tnemnrevog tnekhsat ni . sekirts eht kaerb ot stnasaep eht gnoma redro erotser ot tnes erew skcassoc . sessalc deitreporp eht fo stseretni eht detroppus syawla ti tca ot decrof nehw gnihton od dluoc snoitcaf yranoitcaer dna citarcomed eht neewteb nrot tnemnrevog eht . daerb on saw ereht seitic gib eht ni dna gnivrats saw ymra eht desylarap saw noitatropsnart . nod eht fo senimlaoc eht dna assedo wocsom desluvnoc stuokcol dna sekirts esnemmi . srenwodnal gnircassam dna sesuohronam gninrub erew tnemnrevog eht fo serusaem evis
 sllaw eht no detsop tnemecnuonna dna eerced noitamalcorp yreve tsomla noissessop ym ni evah i gniogerof eht sediseb . 8191 yraunaj fo dne eht ot 7191 fo gnirps eht morf elif etelpmoc tsomla na evah i siht fo . sserp naissur eht fo tnemmoc eht dna sehceeps sgnineppah tnatropmi lla stroper hcihw dargortep ni uaerub noitamrofni hcnerf eht yb yliad deussi esserp al ed nitellub eht si eseht naht elbaulav erom raf tub . etnetne dna eissur ed lanruoj srepap hcnerf owt eht fo dna swen yliad naissur eht repap hsilgne eht fo selif fo debircsed emit eht fo yad yreve tsomla gnirevoc srepapswen naissur detrossa derdnuh lareves fo elif suoenegoreteh a nopu revewoh deiler osla evah i . seton nwo ym morf si koob siht ni lairetam eht fo hcum secruos . noitaicnunorp rieht fo noitamixorppa tselpmis eht ot redaer gnikaepshsilgne eht dael dluow hcihw gnilleps eht evig ot deirt evah tub noitaretilsnart rof selur cifitneics yna wollof ot tpmetta on edam evah i sdrow dna seman naissur fo gnilleps eht ni . reilrae syad neetriht saw 
aep eht gnoma redro erotser ot tnes erew skcassoc . sessalc deitreporp eht fo stseretni eht detroppus syawla ti tca ot decrof nehw gnihton od dluoc snoitcaf yranoitcaer dna citarcomed eht neewteb nrot tnemnrevog eht . daerb on saw ereht seitic gib eht ni dna gnivrats saw ymra eht desylarap saw noitatropsnart . nod eht fo senimlaoc eht dna assedo wocsom desluvnoc stuokcol dna sekirts esnemmi . srenwodnal gnircassam dna sesuohronam gninrub erew tnemnrevog eht fo serusaem evisserper eht yb detarepsaxe dnal eht rof gnitiaw fo derit stnemnrevog revt dna vobmat fo stnasaep eht . dnal eht fo ecaf eht revo sedit sselmia tsav ni evom ot gninnigeb dna tnorf eht gnitresed erew sreidlos fo sdnasuoht fo sderdnuh . citoahc erom yliad erew snoitidnoc . . . . seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo steivos lacol eht dna seitirohtua eht neewteb elggurts rettib a fo gninnigeb eht saw ereht seirtnuoc eseht lla ni dna . seilbmessa tneutitsnoc etarapes dednamed susacuac eht airebis . sselpleh saw tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht dnaynamreg ht
on snoitaxenna onsmret ecaep naissur eht dlrow eht ot demialcorp hcihw teivos rieht saw ti nwod yrtsinim vokuilim eht delruh yeht . noitulover eht fo esruoc eht ni egnahc yreve decrof hcihw stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow elpoep eht fo sessam eht saw ti aissur ni rewop emerpus eht emussa ot amud lairepmi tnatculer eht dellepmoc ecalap ediruat eht nopu gnitaeb sreidlos dna nemkrow fo stnerrot gniraor eht nehw 7191 hcram ecnis . . . . ikivehslob eht fo esir eht saw siht lla fo tluser tcerid eht . . . . eisioegruob eht fo flaheb no liamkcalb lacitilop sselemahs sih yb sessam yranoitulover eht ti htiw dna noitulover taerg eht gniniur dna gnisiladnacs si ohw eno sa yksnerekrerutnevda lacitilop eht tsilaicos eht fo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht fo sknar eht morf lavomer etaidemmi eht dnamed ew swollof sa nageb hcihw noituloser a dessap srofgnisleh ta teelf citlab eht fo setageled fo ssergnoc a . . . . gnol oot si secivres sih fo tsil eht . mih tuoba gnihtyna yas ot ton retteb si ti yksnerek . srekrow yawliar eht tsniaga
f ekil skcarrab taerg eht ti ediseb dna lufituaeb dlog llud ni deniltuo tnevnoc ynloms fo salopuc eulbekoms lufecarg eht esor enil eht fo dne eht ta . elpoep htiw demmaj dna steerts yddum delbboc eht hguorht esion gninaorg a htiw ekillians gnivom racteerts a no ereht tnew i . aven ediw eht ediseb ytic eht fo egde eht no tuo selim yal teivos dargortep eht fo dna hakeeyast eht fo sretrauqdaeh etutitsni ynloms . skramer lacinori htiw gnitpurretni yldloc mih draeh ylbmessa eht . dne eht ta sraet otni gnitsrub ecno ytinu lanoitan rof yletanoissap daelp ot eciwt emac flesmih yksnerek . yrotirret naissur morf ymene eht evird ot saw ksat tsrif eht taht esilaer ot thguo reidlos yreve ecnis rof gnithgif saw ti tahw ymra eht llet ot ytissecen on saw ereht taht deralced stedac eht rof vomehzda . . . . thgir eht morf esualppa ythgim uoy eveileb tnod ew tfel eht morf seirc . tsilaicos a ma i esuaceb smrofer eseht fo ymene eht ton ma i tey dna emirc taht gnittimmoc era ew . emitraw ni smrofer cimonoce dna laicos ekatrednu o
iw eht 4 . tces ii . ppa ees . elpoep eht ot nosaert fo tnemnrevog a ni etapicitrap ton dluow yeht taht gnitats cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht morf werdhtiw yeht emit emas eht ta . aissur fo tnemnrevog eht revo ekat dna 2 rebmevon no dargortep ta teem ot steivos naissurlla eht gninommus yb dednopser ikivehslob eht . steivos eht . e. isnoitasinagro elbisnopserri fo noitadiuqil eht ycilop sti fo trap sa decnuonna tnemnrevog wen eht oot emit siht ta . . . devlossid eb noos thgim yeht taht dna 3 . tces ii . ppa ees dne na ta ylraen saw steivos eht fo noitcnuf eht taht tnih ot nageb swen aitseivzi nagro laiciffo sti . dellac eb ot ti gniwolla fo ro ssergnoc siht gnillac fo noitnetni on dah ti . rebmetpes ni eud steivos fo ssergnoc naissurlla rehtona llac ot desufer yllagelli dah dna steivos eht fo elif dna knar eht detneserper regnol on hakeeyast eht taht si tcaf eht . staes fo rebmun etanoitroporpsid a deipucco yeht cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht ni dna dellortnoc yllacitcarp sessalc deitreporp eht yrts
 noinu stnasaep . aedi yratilim eht fo sretroppus eht fo taht saw noitasinagro eht ni ecneulfni tnanimoderp eht . egroeg . ts fo thgink a emaceb yllacitamotua redloh sti . elttab ni noitca dehsiugnitsid rof dedrawa saw egroeg . ts fo ssorc eht . egroeg . ts fo sthgink . seettimmoc ymra eht fo rewop gniworg eht yllacitilop tabmoc ot ymra eht ni sreciffo yranoitcaer eht gnoma demrof noitasinagro na . sreciffo fo noinu . sessalc deitreporp eht fo snos eht gnoma morf trap tsom eht rof emac eseht . stoirtap gnuoy esnetni fo yltsom desopmoc erew snoilattab htaed eht . elpmaxe cioreh yb ymra eht fo erif evitabmoc dna enilpicsid eht gninehtgnerts fo esoprup eht rof yksnerek yb 7191 fo remmus eht ni demrof erew eseht . nem fo desopmoc snoilattab htaed ynam erew ereht tub noilattab htaed eht sa dlrow eht ot nwonk si noilattab snemow eht . snoilattab kcohs ro . snoilattab htaed . erafraw ni ytleurc egavas rieht dna ecneidebo dnilb rieht rof deton erew istnihket eht . volinrok lareneg ot detoved yllanosrep dna aisa lartn
dnuop a ot flah a dna dnuop a morf llef daerb fo ecnawolla yliad eht . recracs emaceb doof keew yb keew . tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht rednu saw siht . selfir dedaol htiw demra ytud draug thginlla ta snrut koot nem eht sesuoh tnemtrapa ni . desaercni sgnikaerbesuoh dna seirebbor . gninrom eht ni net ot noonretfa eht ni eerht morf krad saw ti . dah eb ot enesorek elttil dna eceipa stnec ytrof seldnac htiw thgindim litnu kcolco xis morf no denrut saw yticirtcele eht sesuohtnemtrapa dna sgnillewd etavirp ni neewteb raf dna wef erew sthgilteerts eht snileppez fo raef sa llew sa ymonoce fo sevitom rof thgin ta . steerts eht hguorht dellor gof llihc eht dna dnalnif fo flug eht morf ni dehsur sdniw pmad rettib . noitartsinimda lapicinum eht fo nwodkaerb etelpmoc eht fo esuaceb lausu naht esrow dna stoob yvaeh yb erehwyreve dekcart gnignilc dna yreppils peed saw toofrednu dum eht . tnassecni gnihcnerd llef niar eht syad gninetrohs eht ni seiks yerg llud rednu . raey dargortep eht yllaicepseraey naissur eht fo shtnom ts
 morf . mih wollof ot desufer yeht dargortep no dehcram volinrok nehw . elpoep eht nwod toohs ot desufer skcassoc eht noitulover eht fo gninnigeb eht ta seitivitca rieht ot noitnetta dellac repap sykrog efil wen nzihz ayavon . skcassoc ehtrewop retsinis a fo seniltuo eugav eht mrof ot nageb scitilop naissur fo dnuorgkcab eht ni won ecaep tuoba sehcnert eht ot deilper tnemnrevog eht woh si taht . timrep seilla eht nehw emoc ecaep lliw nehw . oknehctseret ni dna seilla eht ni htiaf si noitulos eht tuo yaw eht si tahw . lla si taht lla taht si dna . egaugnal eno kaeps lla tsum ew ecnerefnoc deilla eht ni . ti ekil tnod stamolpid naissur eht dna ti ekil tnod seilla eht dab si veileboks ot zakan eht . 5 . siht lla noitnem ton did retsinim eht okrug lareneg yranoituloverretnuoc delixe htiw gnik hsitirb eht fo gniyelrap eht 9 . tces ii . ppa ees teelf hsitirb eht fo ruoivaheb eht tuoba tahw sdeed tuoba tahw snoitaralced . snoitaralced tnatropmi yrev noissessop sih ni sah retsinim eht . su tuoba erac ton od seilla ru
 eht ta . lla ta tsixe yeht taht elbatterger ti sredisnoc ti tub steivos eht nopu dneped ton ti seod ylno ton tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht rof sa . . . . tnaryt a dna topsed a ma i sredael teivos eht fo seye eht ni dias evah ot detroper si neht dna enola nidelak tel ot deerga yksnerek . steivos eht ot gnidleiy rof tnediserpretsinim eht gnihcaorper dna deppord eb nidelak tsniaga segrahc eht taht gnitsisni yltnagorra yksnerek nopu dellac noitageled kcassoc a rebotco fo trap tsrif eht ni . . . . steivos eht fo noitces kcassoc demrofylwen eht lagelli eralced ot dna seimra kcassoc fo noinu eht fo licnuoc eht esingocer ot yllamrof dellepmoc saw ti taht naht erom . noitanidrobusni sih erongi ot decrof saw tnemnrevog eht taht rewop sih saw taerg os . gnicanem dna gnittolp ksakrehctovon ta yal seimra kcassoc esnemmi eerht yb dednuorrus dna ngiser ot desufer yltalf eh . riaffa volinrok eht ni yticilpmoc sih rof tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht yb dessimsid neeb dah skcassoc nod eht fo namata nidelak . . . . egats eht fo tnorf 
w setageled . lliw selpoep adoran ailov dna esuac selpoep adoran oleid sserp ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo yrellitra eritne eht did sa ti deliassa ylecreif hakeeyast eht fo sdnah eht ni won tub teivos dargortep eht yb dednuof srepapswen reidlos eht fo eciov atadlos solog dna aitseivzi . gniteem eht tneverp ot sniap on deraps flesti hakeeyast eht lla fo tsom tub steivos stnasaep eht snoinu edart eht fo emos fo seettimmoc lartnec eht seettimmoc teelf dna ymra lartnec eht . stsilaicos etaredom eht lla yb tub tnemnrevog eht yb ylno ton desoppo saw ti . sgninthgil htiw hguorht tohs duolcrednuht a ekil aissur revo demool steivos fo ssergnoc eht elihwnaem . detaiduper saw noitaucave fo nalp eht lavorppasid ralupop fo mrots a fo ecaf eht ni . . . . desilaromed yletelpmoc era spihselttab eht fo tsom terger ot gnihton eb lliw ereht tub . . . . deyortsed eb osla lliw teelf citlab eht dargortep fo gnikat eht htiw . . . . aissur nopu retsasid tub gnihton gnirb lliw yeht rof deyortsed era snoitasinagro eseht lla fi 
enu yllacitilop eht dna slautcelletni eht stnasaep reihtlaew eht tneserper ot emac yllanif yeht . meht htiw rehtegot dekrow dna ikivehsnem eht fo edutitta lacitilop eht detpoda seiranoitulover tsilaicos thgir spuorg lacidar eht yb dellac syawla drawretfa erew ohw seriasse eht . ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht ytrap wen a gnimrof dna 7191 fo llaf eht ni ytrap niam eht morf ffo gnikaerb slautcelletni yreif erom dna regnuoy eht ot del dna esualc noitasnepmoc eht nodnaba ot seriasse eht decrof stnasaep fo gnileef yranoitulover gnisaercni eht yllanif . noihsaf emos ni detasnepmoc eb ot srenwo eht ylno dnal ni ytreporp etavirp fo noitiloba eht rof doots ti emit taht ta . stsilaicos neeb reven dah ohw ynam yb denioj saw ti noitulover hcram eht retfa . stsirorret ehtsnoitasinagro gnithgif eht fo ytrap eht stnasaep eht fo ytrap yranoitulover eht yllanigiro . eman rieht fo slaitini eht morf seriasse dellac . ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos . 5 . deraeppasid ovtsnidey tated puoc kivehslob eht retfa . ikivehsnem eht
noitulover tsilaicos fo puorg a 7191 rebmeced fo elddim eht tuoba . . . . gniw thgir eht ot degnoleb ykrog mixam neve dna vonrehct rotciv ekil nem dna gniwollof rieht rof yranoitcaer oot erew veitneskva dna ztog rebeil nad illeterest sredael tsilaicos elddim eht tsinoituloverretnuoc a emaceb yksnerek elpoep eht fo seimene sa dewaltuo erew stedac eht litnutfel eht ot ylidob gnuws scitilop naissur sa tsuj efil retfiws rewen eht ot sevlesruo tpada ew did ylkciuq os . evitavresnoc ylbidercni tsomla ega rehtona fo smees noitcerrusni rebmevon eht erofeb aissur kcab gnikool . . . . esruoc sti nur evah noitulover fo ssenkcis eht lliw aissur ni emit gnol a rof ton . aissur sti nwonk retteb evah dluohs eisioegruob eht tnemnoisullisid dna noitavrats fo shtnom eseht lla retfa noitulover naissur eht fo ytilativ eht fo noitalever a tahw . tabmoc latrom nilaicos eht dna lacitilop ehtnoitulover fo smetsys owt dlrow deltrats eht dewohs aissur yrutnec hteitnewt eht otni sega elddim eht morf depael dnuob eno ta gnivah . etaniml
dlos eht htiw noitarepooc no desab enilpicsid citarcomed yratnulov wen a ylno taht detsisni raw fo retsinim yksvohkrev lareneg dna eniram fo retsinim elbarenev eht yksveredrev larimda niav ni . yvan eht dna ymra eht ni enilpicsid erotser ot detpoda eb serusaem hsrah taht dednamed stedac yb dekcab nem yratilim emigr dlo eht . yksnerek yb devlossid saw dna ruobal dna latipac fo secrof gnisoppo eht neewteb kcoldaed a ot emac yrtnuoc eht fo efil cimonoce derettahs eht dliuber ot dehsilbatse licnuoc cimonoce eht dargortep ni . teivos eht desserppus seitirohtua tnemnrevog tnekhsat ni . sekirts eht kaerb ot stnasaep eht gnoma redro erotser ot tnes erew skcassoc . sessalc deitreporp eht fo stseretni eht detroppus syawla ti tca ot decrof nehw gnihton od dluoc snoitcaf yranoitcaer dna citarcomed eht neewteb nrot tnemnrevog eht . daerb on saw ereht seitic gib eht ni dna gnivrats saw ymra eht desylarap saw noitatropsnart . nod eht fo senimlaoc eht dna assedo wocsom desluvnoc stuokcol dna sekirts esnemmi . srenwodnal gnir
om ytic eht revo lla derrucco hcihw sgniteem ralupop taerg eht fo eno ot enredom euqric eht ot revir eht ssorca tnew i ecaep ecaep gniyrc snoitageled fo sderdnuh nopu sderdnuh rieht latipac eht otni gniruop gnisir aes eht ekil derrits seimra saissur ni nem fo snoillim eht tnorf fo selim dnasuoht a gnola meht del evah seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo scitcat gnisimorpmoc eht erehw ees deirc ikivehslob eht dna tnalibuj saw sserp naissur evitavresnoc eht siht ta . . . . ti gnitcudnoc fo sdohtem eht ylno tub lla ta raw eht fo smia eht ssucsid ton lliw ecnerefnoc sirap eht wonk i sa raf sa yldloc dednopser noitseuq a ot rewsna ni snommoc fo esuoh hsitirb eht ni wal ranob yllanif dna detsetorp srodassabma deilla eht zakan sih dna veileboks ot detcejbo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . snoitcurtsni 5 . tces ii . ppa ees zakan suomaf eht otsefinam a pu werd dna meht rof kaeps ot veileboks esohc steivos eht . sriaffa ngierof fo retsinim oknehctseret dna nam yratilim yranoitcaer veyexela larenegsevitatneserpe
 fo swen . . . 6 . tces ii . ppa ees . aissur fo esnepxe eht ta ecaep fo sruomur emac eporue morf . . . . htiw thgif ot noitinumma hguone ro no evil ot doof hguone su evig tnseod emit emas eht ta dna sgniht hcus fo klat ot neve su sdibrof tnemnrevog eht won tub . ecaep gnirb dluow noitulover eht taht thguoht ew . meht stroppus tnemnrevog yranoituloverretnuoc eht dna srotatiga ruo ot ytlanep htaed eht ylppa yeht ymene eht ot su yarteb yeht seettimmoc ruo htiw krow ton lliw sreciffo eht yrellitra nairebis htxisytrof eht rof . . . . ymra eht troppus ro raw eht dne tnemnrevog eht tel rehtie . . . seilppus ro ecaep . sehcnert ytpme ylno tfel eb lliw ereht noos ro stnemecrofnier dna stoob dna doof su evig tsum yeht . ynapmoc hcae ni tfel nem wef a ylno evah ew kaew era ew ymra hthgie eht rof namsekops eht . emoh og dna sehcnert eht evael dluow ymra eht ecaep teg ot troffe citegrene na ekam ton did tnemnrevog eht fi taht gniralced raw eht ot dne na rof gniruomalc lla srekaeps reidlos ssel dne srenrocteerts eht no se
isioegruob eht yb detroppus . . . . ymra eht ni enilpicsid dnilb a erotser ot tnaw slareneg sti dna eisioegruob eht . . . . noitavrats htiw denetaerht era nemkrow nwod gnisolc era senim dna seirotcaf snoitidepxe evitinup htiw meht ercassam seitirohtua tnemnrevog dna sdroldnal eht noilleber nepo ni tuo emoc noitarepsed ot thguorb stnasaep eht . . . . senutrofsim selpoep eht ni eciojer stsinoituloverretnuoc . . . . dargortep fo ytefas eht rof regnad si ereht . . . . yrtnuoc eht dna ymra eht fo noitalihinna eht naem lliw ngiapmac sraey htruof eht weiv fo tniop kivehslob eht pu demmus elcitra gnidael sti . tadlos i ihctobar ht71 rebotco no dna noitide noillimflah yliad a ni tuo deruop tseroop egalliv atondeyb ayaksnevered stnasaep eht rof repap wen a deraeppa ereht reidlos tadlos dna tup ihctobar srepap ytrap owt eht sediseb . dednapxe ylneddus sserp kivehslob eht htrae eht fo ecaf eht morf mucs ekil yawa meht peews lliw ew tairatelorp eht fo snoitasinagro eht nopu sdnah rieht yal ot erad yeht fi tahtraf oot og n
tuaeb dlog llud ni deniltuo tnevnoc ynloms fo salopuc eulbekoms lufecarg eht esor enil eht fo dne eht ta . elpoep htiw demmaj dna steerts yddum delbboc eht hguorht esion gninaorg a htiw ekillians gnivom racteerts a no ereht tnew i . aven ediw eht ediseb ytic eht fo egde eht no tuo selim yal teivos dargortep eht fo dna hakeeyast eht fo sretrauqdaeh etutitsni ynloms . skramer lacinori htiw gnitpurretni yldloc mih draeh ylbmessa eht . dne eht ta sraet otni gnitsrub ecno ytinu lanoitan rof yletanoissap daelp ot eciwt emac flesmih yksnerek . yrotirret naissur morf ymene eht evird ot saw ksat tsrif eht taht esilaer ot thguo reidlos yreve ecnis rof gnithgif saw ti tahw ymra eht llet ot ytissecen on saw ereht taht deralced stedac eht rof vomehzda . . . . thgir eht morf esualppa ythgim uoy eveileb tnod ew tfel eht morf seirc . tsilaicos a ma i esuaceb smrofer eseht fo ymene eht ton ma i tey dna emirc taht gnittimmoc era ew . emitraw ni smrofer cimonoce dna laicos ekatrednu ot emirc a si ti taht tsisni ot desaec ton ev
. su tuoba erac ton od seilla ruo taht eurt ton si ti . 4 . secneuqesnoc eht noitnem ton did eh . riaffa yppah yrev a dna laicifeneb saw evisneffo yluj fo ts1 eht . 3 . seilla ruo fo stnemnrevog eht yb dediced eb lliw taht . ngiapmac retniw a fo ytilibissopmi ro ytilibissop eht ssucsid ot ycarcomed eht rof esu on si ereht . 2 . stnemnrevog eht htiw tub selpoep eht htiw ton . seilla ruo htiw detinu ylesolc era ew . 1 gniwollof eht sehcnert eht dlot yllautca sah oknehctseret . rm sretsinim ruo fo nruticat tsom eht sehcnert eht ot rewsna stnemnrevog eht teivos dargortep kivehslob eht fo nagro reidlos dna rekrow tadlos i ihctobar ni lairotide na ecudorper i . . . . ecaep rof sserp dluow tnemnrevog eht taht ecnarussa na detnaw seitrap citarcomed eht ycilop tsilairepmi gnorts a detnaw seiranoitcaer eht . deifsitas saw ydobon . rewop taerg a fo nerdlihc dna laedi taerg a fo srednefed era ew taht wohs tsum ew reh dnefed lla tsum ew . sneppah revetahw rewop taerg a niamer lliw aissur . rewop taerg a si aissur etonyek 
l dnuob eno ta gnivah . etanimluc ot tuoba saw syad hcram tsrif eht ni nugeb dah hcihw tnemnrevog eht dna steivos eht neewteb ssalc elddim eht dna tairatelorp eht neewteb elggurts eht dlrow eht revo lla elpoep eht fo esuac eht ti htiw dna regnad ni si noitulover eht . . . . yrehcaert noitaluceps ycamolpid terces ot dne na raw sselesnes eht ot dne na daerb dnal . stnasaep sreidlos srekrow nommoc fo snoillim no snoillim fo sevitatneserper tcerid eht ot rewop lla steivos eht ot rewop lla ikivehslob eht fo surohc gninepeed eht yad retfa yad dednuos eton raelc eno shturtflah suortsnom fo noitpurroc fo erehpsomta siht ni . rehto ro mrof emos ni noitcaer erotser ot gnitpmetta ysub erew sderdnuh kcalb eht sa hcus stros lla fo snoitasinagro dnuorgrednu ssenkrad eht ni . . . . yap dluow reveohwyksnerek tsniaga dna rof rast eht tsniaga dna rof denoitcnuf llits anarhko suoiroton eht fo stnega eht . evitca yrev dna llits terces dnoces eht salohcin fo llaf eht ecnis degnahcnu secrof krad emitdlo eht devom ssennettor lanret
peed eht yad retfa yad dednuos eton raelc eno shturtflah suortsnom fo noitpurroc fo erehpsomta siht ni . rehto ro mrof emos ni noitcaer erotser ot gnitpmetta ysub erew sderdnuh kcalb eht sa hcus stros lla fo snoitasinagro dnuorgrednu ssenkrad eht ni . . . . yap dluow reveohwyksnerek tsniaga dna rof rast eht tsniaga dna rof denoitcnuf llits anarhko suoiroton eht fo stnega eht . evitca yrev dna llits terces dnoces eht salohcin fo llaf eht ecnis degnahcnu secrof krad emitdlo eht devom ssennettor lanretxe siht lla htaeneb . erew yeht srebbor tahw snoisivorp fo serots dedraoh tsav denoitisiuqer dna dnuof ikivehslob eht yllanif nehw . . . snaissur eb ot erew yeht demahsa wohsdrawoc maercs ylimaf siht did yltnangidni woh noitsuahxe dna regnuh dloc morf thgif regnol on dluoc tnorf eht ta sreidlos eht nehw tey . . . . rettub dna ekac ydnac aet ragus daerb etihw fo ecnadnuba na dah eh sdrac daerb rieht no daerb kcalb fo dnuop retrauq a tog elpoep eht fo sessam eht elihw os dna . dedeen eh gnihtyreve mih dehsinruf sevit
 evif yb til ertaehtihpma ymoolg erab eht . thgin retfa thgin suoremun erom ytic eht revo lla derrucco hcihw sgniteem ralupop taerg eht fo eno ot enredom euqric eht ot revir eht ssorca tnew i ecaep ecaep gniyrc snoitageled fo sderdnuh nopu sderdnuh rieht latipac eht otni gniruop gnisir aes eht ekil derrits seimra saissur ni nem fo snoillim eht tnorf fo selim dnasuoht a gnola meht del evah seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo scitcat gnisimorpmoc eht erehw ees deirc ikivehslob eht dna tnalibuj saw sserp naissur evitavresnoc eht siht ta . . . . ti gnitcudnoc fo sdohtem eht ylno tub lla ta raw eht fo smia eht ssucsid ton lliw ecnerefnoc sirap eht wonk i sa raf sa yldloc dednopser noitseuq a ot rewsna ni snommoc fo esuoh hsitirb eht ni wal ranob yllanif dna detsetorp srodassabma deilla eht zakan sih dna veileboks ot detcejbo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . snoitcurtsni 5 . tces ii . ppa ees zakan suomaf eht otsefinam a pu werd dna meht rof kaeps ot veileboks esohc steivos eht . sriaffa ngierof fo retsinim
inoituloverretnuoc . . . . dargortep fo ytefas eht rof regnad si ereht . . . . yrtnuoc eht dna ymra eht fo noitalihinna eht naem lliw ngiapmac sraey htruof eht weiv fo tniop kivehslob eht pu demmus elcitra gnidael sti . tadlos i ihctobar ht71 rebotco no dna noitide noillimflah yliad a ni tuo deruop tseroop egalliv atondeyb ayaksnevered stnasaep eht rof repap wen a deraeppa ereht reidlos tadlos dna tup ihctobar srepap ytrap owt eht sediseb . dednapxe ylneddus sserp kivehslob eht htrae eht fo ecaf eht morf mucs ekil yawa meht peews lliw ew tairatelorp eht fo snoitasinagro eht nopu sdnah rieht yal ot erad yeht fi tahtraf oot og nac yeht taht wonk meht tel tub . su ekovorp ot gniyrt era yeht . su ezeerf dna su evrats ot gniyrt era yeht . ti ot desu teg tsum ew tub dab si noitautis cimonoce eht . sdrow ton sdeed rof emit eht si won elbacalpmi deciovwols thgils yksvortep emac neht noitulover laicos eht rof thgif dna esir ot srekrow nacirema eht llet su pleh dna esir dlrow eht fo selpoep eht litnu htgnerts ruo lla h
na seirtnuoc ngierof morf gniyub eht sa llew sa ymra naissur eht fo gnihtolc dna gnideef eritne eht revo koot yllaudarg sovtsmez eht raw eht gnirud . stnasaep eht gnoma ecivres laicos dna noitacude saw noitcnuf tnatropmi tsom rieht . sessalc gninwodnal eht gnoma slarebil lautcelletni yb ylegral dellortnoc dna depoleved rewop evitartsinimda elttil yrev htiw seidob laicosimes lacitilopimes rast eht rednu . slicnuoc ytnuoc detalsnart ylhguor eb yam . sovtsmez . 5 . spuorg cimonoce no desab snoitasinagro fo rewop gniworg eht fo tcaf eht ni noitatneserper lacitilop ylerup lla fo ecneulfni ni enilced lareneg eht saw noitulover kivehslob eht gnirud sessam eht dloh ot eruliaf rof nosaer ylno sti dna tollab terces dna tcerid yb detcele saw ti . tnemnrevogfles lapicinum dellac netfo licnuoc lapicinum desinagroer eht saw koob siht ni ot derrefer amud ytic eht . 7191 rebmetpes ni htaed larutan a deid mrof desitarcomed a ni noitulover eht retfa shtnom xis detsisrep hcihw amud lairepmi dlo eht . ydob evitarebiled ylhguor s
noce dna laicos ekatrednu ot emirc a si ti taht tsisni ot desaec ton evah i raw eht fo gninnigeb eht ecnis . . . . ymra eht ni enilpicsid gnorts yletaidemmi evah tsum ew stedac eht fo edis eht koot dna stnasaep eht ot dnal eht gnivig tsniaga ekops stsilaicos tsilupop eht gnitneserper yksvokiahct salohcin dlo . . . . ycilop siht tsniaga yletulosba era seitrap yranoitulover eht seilla eht fo toirahcraw eht ot aissur dnib ot etats eht fo enihcam yranoitulover eht tiolpxe ot tnaw seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht rof nilerak deirc sessalc deitreporp eht . yad yb yad denepeed rebmahc eht fo sedis owt eht neewteb flug eht cilbuper eht fo licnuoc eht ni . . . . ynamreg revo lla snoitamalcorp eseht daerps dluow nemria ruo . . . . egaugnal namreg eht ni snoitamalcorp htiw sehcnert namreg eht llif spoort namreg eht ot yltcerid stamolpid eht fo sdaeh eht revo laeppa dluow dna aissur fo stnasaep dna sreidlos nemkrow eht rof yllaer kaeps dluow hcihw tnemnrevog yranoitulover a yb ylno enod eb nac siht raw denmad siht tsni
ht sa erofeb shtnom ynam tub 7191 ht7 rebmevon no desinagrosid ton erew ymra naissur eht dna efil cimonoce naissur taht dnatsrednu ot yrassecen si ti ikivehslob eht fo esir eht gniredisnoc ni . snoitaitogen ksvotil tserb eht fo emoctuo dna esruoc eht dna etats teivos eht fo erutcurts eht ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht fo noitulossid eht tnemitnes ralupop fo noitulove eht snoitasinagro yranoitulover eht fo snoitcnuf dna nigiro eht nialpxe i ereht . ecaep namreg eht gnidulcni dna ot pu noitulover eht fo esruoc eht ecart i ksvotiltserb ot volinrok emulov rehtona ni . ereh derewsna eb tonnac snoitseuq rehto ynam dna eseht drawretfa ti noipmahc yeht did yhw tnerappa emaceb msivehslob fo regnad eht litnu ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht desoppo eisioegruob eht fi dna drawretfa smra fo ecrof yb ti esrepsid yeht did yhw noitulover rebmevon eht erofeb ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht denoipmahc ikivehslob eht fi pu tes ikivehslob eht did erutcurts latnemnrevog a fo dnik tahw msivehslob si tahw . redaer eht fo dnim eht ot sevlesmeht tseggus
f eht . nwo ruo naht rehtar ledom latnenitnoc eht retfa desinagro era snoitnevnoc dna sgniteem naissur erudecorp yratnemailrap . stsihcrana tnasaep fo puorg tnacifingisni na won . emmargorp tsilaicos mumixam eht fo noitacilppa etaidemmi eht gnidnamed tnemevom tnasaep lufrewop a saw ti nehw 5091 fo noitulover eht ni ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo toohsffo na . stsilamixam . b . veyagalak vokmak nilerak avonodirips sredael eht gnoma . sevlesmeht stnasaep eht yb noitisopsid rieht dna setatse dednal taerg eht fo noitasnepmoc tuohtiw noitacsifnoc rof gnidnats tnemnrevog teivos eht gnitroppus ytrap tnasaep taerg eht emaceb hcihw ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht denioj yeht srebmun gnisaercni ni seriasse eht fo sknar eht tfel stnasaep eht sa . denruter syawla tub semit lareves tnemnrevog eht morf werdhtiw yeht . erutlucirga fo taht yllaicepse soiloftrop tenibac eht gnirahs tnemnrevog teivos eht ni deniamer seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht revewoh . scitcat kivehslob sselhtur eht wollof ot tnatculer ere
t . steerts eht seirotcaf eht segalliv eht seimra eht otni deruop dna snoitasinagro fo sdnasuoht yb detubirtsid erew stelhpmap fo sdnasuoht fo sderdnuh . lareves semitemosrepapswen sti dah noitcaf lacitilop hcae tnorf eht gnola snwot tsom ni ytic yreve ni . . . . wonk ot detnaw elpoep eht esuacebyrotsih scimonoce scitilopgnidaer dna daer ot gninrael saw aissur lla . redro dlo eht htiw tabmoc yb noissim lacirotsih rieht snoitanalpxe dna seton ees fo noitasilaer a dna htgnerts dna ecneirepxe deniag seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf eht snoitasinagro naissur euqinu esoht seirotcaf eht ni . seettimmoc rieht hguorht tnemnrevogfles denrael dna sreciffo eht htiw thgif rieht tuo thguof sreidlos eht tnorf eht ta pit a mih gnireffo yb mih tlusni ot nosaer on si elbat no gnitiaw gnivil sih ekam ot sah nam a esuaceb tsuj ro ereh nekat spit on daer hcihw sngis pu tup yeht stnaruatser fo sllaw eht no . spit desufer dna desinagro erew stnavres letoh dna sretiaw eht . teivos dargortep eht ni detneserper osla erew yeht noinu a dah srevi
t ni detaerc snoitasinagro suoenatnops erew eseht . seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf . 3 . latipac eht ni eettimmoc evitucexe lartnec sti dah hcihw ruobal fo noitaredef naissur fo tros a ydob naissurlla na ni desinagro osla erew snoinu eseht . srebmem noillim ruof ot eerht morf dah noitulover kivehslob eht fo emit eht ta dna snoinu edart dellac llits erew snoinu ruobal naissur eht mrof ni lairtsudni yltsom hguohtla . snoinu edart . 2 . latipac eht ni steivos stnasaep naissurlla eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe na htiw sreidlos dna srekrow eht ekil desinagro erew oot yeht . tated puoc kivehslob eht retfa litnu owt rehto eht nioj ton did seituped stnasaep fo steivos eht . yletarapes teem ot deunitnoc snoitces sreidlos eht dna srekrow eht revewoh stseretni railucep rieht gninrecnoc srettam laiceps ni . noitulover hcram eht retfa noos yrev denibmoc seituped sreidlos fo dna srekrow fo steivos eht erehwyreve tsomla . seettimmoc lartnec woleb ees . hakeeyast slaitini sti morf dellac latipac eht ni steivos naissurlla eht fo eettimmo
dnus gnidulcni thgin yreve gniog erew sertaeht eht lla esruoc fo . . . . dworc naissur eht fo erutandoog suolucarim eht hguorht pu tsrub emit ot emit morf hcihw tnetnocsid fo eton dirca rettib eht gniraeh senildaerb eht ni denetsil evah i retniw naissur eht ni syad elohw dargortep fo steerts etihwnori eht no gnidnats elpoep dalcylroop eht fo kniht . sgniht fo redro raluger eht sa nwod delttes ti nehw 7191 fo remmus eht litnu yltnettimretni deunitnoc neht morf dna 5191 sa oga gnol sa desselb eht salohcin fo ngier eht ni nugeb ecitcarp eht ot flesreh demotsucca dah aissur . eueuq ni gnidnats fo ytlucaf rieht yb srehto lla evoba dehsiugnitsid sa elpoep hcnerf eht debircsed sah noitulover hcnerf sih ni elylrac . . . . smra rieht ni seibab htiw emos nemow yltsom nwad erofeb mrof ot gninnigeb liat tsovk eht nees evah i gniteem thginlla na morf emoh gnimoc . niar llihc eht ni sruoh gnol eueuq ni dnats ot dah eno occabot dna ragus dna daerb dna klim rof . . . . renrocteerts eht no eceipa elbur a naht ssel elttil a ro
desinagro ton sah ycarcomed eht sa gnol sa . tnorf detinu a tneserp tsum ycarcomed yranoitulover eht fo seitrap eht lla tub smra fo ecrof yb detsiser eb tsum yeht yrassecen fi taht dna noitulover eht yortsed ot gnitpmetta erew seiranoitcaer eht taht ikivehslob eht htiw deerga nzihz ayavon repap sykrog . ercassam kivehslob lareneg a detacovda sur ayavon sa steehs hcus . ssergnoc eht fo gniteem eht tneverp ot tsael ta ro teivos dargortep eht tserra ot tnemnrevog eht degru dna noitcerrusni deisehporp sserp yranoitcaer dna sioegruob eht . sreidlos dna srekrow eht fo tuo gnimoceinnelputsyv a noitartsnomed demra na eb dluow ereht taht ytic eht hguorht nar sruomur od ikivehslob eht dluow tahw . . . ekat thgim sreidlos dna srekrow eht noitca revetahw tesffo dna ht31 rebmeced teem ot ssergnoc stnasaep a rof llac ycnegreme na deussi steivos stnasaep eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe eht emit emas eht ta . elbissop sa setageled tsilaicos etaredom ynam sa tcele ot snoitasinagro laicnivorp rieht ot yllacitnarf eriw ot nageb dna 
stort noel dna reimerp sa eninel salohcin htiw tenibac nwo rieht desinagro skivehslob eht ycarcomed naissur eht fo htrib eht koob sih ni yas ot siht sah tnemnrevog teivos eht sesoppo hcihw uaerub noitamrofni naissur eht fo yrtnuoc siht ni rotcerid kcas . j . a . rm . msivehslob fo hpmuirt eht ni gnitanimluc noitulover lacitilop eht fo pot no noitulover laicos eht raw ngierof a fo tsdim eht ni aissur ni depoleved os dna . keerc elppirc dna sdleifdlog fo nemgnikrow eht fo segelivirp luftbuod eht rof egnahcxe ni snoiger citcra eht dna stresed eht ot delixe dna liaj naissur yreve ni sdnasuoht yb denosirpmi assedo dna agir wocsom ni sderdnuh yb detucexe nwod tohs sevlesmeht evah ton did aissur fo nemgnikrow eht . ssalc tsilatipac eht . e. i rehtona rof topsed eno egnahcxe ot suoixna yrev ton erew yeht tub nwo rieht ot elbareferp erew snoitutitsni lacitilop nacirema ruo taht deerga lla erew srekrow eht yeht . raen sward taht tcilfnoc rettib eht ni rehto eht ro edis eno ekat sessalc rehto eht taht sksa ylerem eh . s
 ngierof fo uaerub dna hakeeyast dna teivos dargortep eht fo eettimmoc lartnec redro wen eht fo ytilativ eht fo ecnedive sngis derettelyledurc gnuh eseht revo tub uaerub srehcaet ro 4 rebmun moorssalc seidal saw nihtiw taht ybressap eht gnimrofni llits seuqalp dellemane srood rieht no erab dna etihw smoor eguh derdnuh a naht erom erew nihtiw . sreidlos dna srekrow fo snoitasinagro yranoitulover eht yb revo nekat neeb dah etutitsni eht flesreh anirast eht yb desinortap ytilibon naissur eht fo srethguad eht rof loohcstnevnoc suomaf a emigr dlo eht rednu . . . . ecnartne eht revo tnelosni llits enots ni yleguh devrac smra lairepmi eht hgih seirots ytfol eerht dna gnol sdray derdnuh owt etutitsni ynloms fo edaaf ekil skcarrab taerg eht ti ediseb dna lufituaeb dlog llud ni deniltuo tnevnoc ynloms fo salopuc eulbekoms lufecarg eht esor enil eht fo dne eht ta . elpoep htiw demmaj dna steerts yddum delbboc eht hguorht esion gninaorg a htiw ekillians gnivom racteerts a no ereht tnew i . aven ediw eht ediseb ytic eht f
hslob eht fo yrotsih eht . noitulover hcram eht retfa yletaidemmi tsomla tnedive emaceb rewop otni gnimoc rieht fo ytilibativeni eht . sriaffa ngierof fo retsinim ykstort noel dna reimerp sa eninel salohcin htiw tenibac nwo rieht desinagro skivehslob eht ycarcomed naissur eht fo htrib eht koob sih ni yas ot siht sah tnemnrevog teivos eht sesoppo hcihw uaerub noitamrofni naissur eht fo yrtnuoc siht ni rotcerid kcas . j . a . rm . msivehslob fo hpmuirt eht ni gnitanimluc noitulover lacitilop eht fo pot no noitulover laicos eht raw ngierof a fo tsdim eht ni aissur ni depoleved os dna . keerc elppirc dna sdleifdlog fo nemgnikrow eht fo segelivirp luftbuod eht rof egnahcxe ni snoiger citcra eht dna stresed eht ot delixe dna liaj naissur yreve ni sdnasuoht yb denosirpmi assedo dna agir wocsom ni sderdnuh yb detucexe nwod tohs sevlesmeht evah ton did aissur fo nemgnikrow eht . ssalc tsilatipac eht . e. i rehtona rof topsed eno egnahcxe ot suoixna yrev ton erew yeht tub nwo rieht ot elbareferp erew snoitutitsni lacit
ivehslob eht desoppo . snoitcaf taerg owt eht fo rehtie ot deit eb ot desufer puorg nzihz ayavon eht taht tpecxe stsilanoitanretni ikivehsnem eht sa emmargorp emas eht tsomla htiw slautcelletni . redael sti ykrog mixam fo gniwollof lanosrep eht tpecxe ssalcgnikrow eht gnoma gniwollof llams yrev a htiw slautcelletni fo puorg elttil a . nagro sti saw hcihw repapswen laitneulfni yrev eht fo eman eht morf puorg efil wen nzihz ayavon eht dellac osla . stsilanoitanretni starcomed laicos detinu . d . yksrahctanul ykztort ninel sredael eht gnoma . b5 hpargarap ees . puorg etarapes a era stsilamixam eht . tsilamixam yb detalsnart eb ton nac kivehslob eman eht . stnasaep roop eht fo noitces egral a fo osla tub srekrow yrotcaf eht fo ylfeihc serised eht sesserpxe ytrap siht . snoitutitsni laicnanif dna secruoser larutan dnal yrtsudni revo gnikat ylbicrof yb msilaicos fo gnimoc eht netsah ot redro ni tnemnrevog fo snier eht fo eruzies dna noitcerrusni nairatelorp etaidemmi desoporp ikivehslob eht . seirtnuoc lla ni stsil
e dna seton . 9191 ts1 yraunaj kroy wen . r . j . hturt eht nwod gnittes ni detseretni retroper suoitneicsnoc a fo eye eht htiw stneve ees ot deirt evah i syad taerg esoht fo yrots eht gnillet ni tub . lartuen ton erew seihtapmys ym elggurts eht ni . koob siht nettirw evah i taht weiv ni siht htiw si ti . detca dna deklat dekool sredael eht woh dna elpoep eht detamina hcihw tirips eht 7191 rebmevon ni dargortep ni deneppah tahw wonk ot tnaw lliw yeht os enummoc sirap eht fo yrots eht fo sliated tsetunim eht rof sdrocer eht hcraes snairotsih sa tsuj . ecnatropmi ediwdlrow fo nonemonehp a ikivehslob eht fo esir eht dna yrotsih namuh fo stneve taerg eht fo eno si noitulover naissur eht taht elbainednu si ti msivehslob fo skniht eno tahw rettam on . noitartsinimda lacol fo ksat eht emussa ot deraperp seituped stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo steivos erew ereht ecnivorp dna tcirtsid ytic nwot egalliv yreve ni . yrtsudni fo lortnoc srekrow noitarepo otni tup ot ereht erew snoinu edart eht dna seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf
lla ta raw eht fo smia eht ssucsid ton lliw ecnerefnoc sirap eht wonk i sa raf sa yldloc dednopser noitseuq a ot rewsna ni snommoc fo esuoh hsitirb eht ni wal ranob yllanif dna detsetorp srodassabma deilla eht zakan sih dna veileboks ot detcejbo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . snoitcurtsni 5 . tces ii . ppa ees zakan suomaf eht otsefinam a pu werd dna meht rof kaeps ot veileboks esohc steivos eht . sriaffa ngierof fo retsinim oknehctseret dna nam yratilim yranoitcaer veyexela larenegsevitatneserper owt detseggus tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . ht01 rebmevon rof dexif saw ti won dna rebotco litnu neht rebmetpes litnu denoptsop neht tsugua rof desimorp neeb dah ecnerefnoc siht . smiaraw ssucsid ot ecnerefnoc a dloh seilla eht taht dednamed dah yeht . snoitidnocecaep naissur suomaf eht demialcorp dahseiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo lortnoc rednu neht teivos dargortep eht 7191 yam sa oga gnol sa . smret citarcomed no ecaep elbissop tseilrae eht fo ruovaf ni erew aissur ni seitrap tsilaicos lla yllacitero
ra eht taht dnim ym ni tbuod elttil si ereht did yeht nehw tnemnrevog eht ot dedeeccus ton dah yeht fi . yrtnuoc eht no ti esopmi ot rewop eht dna margorp evitcurtsnoc a htiw aissur ni ytrap ylno eht erew ikivehslob eht taht em ot smees ti ecrof evitcurtsed a gnieb fo daetsni . elbisiv si nonemonehp emas eht yadot dlrow eht ni yrtnuoc yreve tsomla ni . sessalc deitreporp eht fo edis eht no gnithgif sevlesmeht dnuof seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht esimorpmoc wolloh elohw eht tespu ikivehslob eht nehw dne eht ta dna . tnetsisni erom dna erom werg sessalc deitreporp eht elihw margorp eritne rieht no elttil yb elttil yaw evig ot degilbo gnieb sretsinim tsilaicos eht ni detluser ti os . stsilaicos etaredom eht deen ton did eisioegruob eht tub . eisioegruob eht dedeen stsilaicos etaredom eht . meht gnitroppus ot pets ysae na saw ti siht morf . tnemnrevog eht ni sessalc deitreporp eht fo noitaroballoc eht nopu detsisni yeht ecneuqesnoc a sa . seicarcomed nretsew eht no stnemevorpmi emos htiw hguohtetats
ov eno hcae dna snoitcaf tnereffid eht yb dettimbus era snoituloser etabed eht fo esolc eht ta dna detabed neht dna yaw lareneg a ni detats si sorpov noitseuq hcae . met orp riahc eht ekat ot tnediserp eht yb nopu dellac eb nac srebmem sti dna ssenisub fo redro eht segnarra muidiserp eht . srebmun rieht ot noitroporp ni ylbmessa eht ni detneserper snoitcaf lacitilop dna spuorg eht fo sevitatneserper fo desopmoc eettimmoc gnidiserp a si muidiserp eht . muidiserp eht dna sreciffo fo noitcele eht yllausu si noitca tsrif eht . nwo ruo naht rehtar ledom latnenitnoc eht retfa desinagro era snoitnevnoc dna sgniteem naissur erudecorp yratnemailrap . stsihcrana tnasaep fo puorg tnacifingisni na won . emmargorp tsilaicos mumixam eht fo noitacilppa etaidemmi eht gnidnamed tnemevom tnasaep lufrewop a saw ti nehw 5091 fo noitulover eht ni ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo toohsffo na . stsilamixam . b . veyagalak vokmak nilerak avonodirips sredael eht gnoma . sevlesmeht stnasaep eht yb noitisopsid rieht dna setatse ded
ah stedac eht retfa . nem cilbup fo puorg . a2 . ykstahs revaniv vokuilim era koob siht ni sevitatneserper sti . evitavresnoc erom dna erom werg stedac eht noitulover cimonoce laicos a erom dna erom emaceb noitulover eht sa . tnemnrevog srast eht fo smia citsilairepmi eht gnidulcni smia citsilairepmi deilla fo ruovaf ni flesti deralced ti esuaceb lirpa ni nworhtrevo saw yrtsinim tedac eht . tnemnrevog lanoisivorp tsrif eht demrof stedac eht 7191 hcram ni tuo ekorb noitulover eht nehw . acirema ni ytrap evissergorp eht ot gnidnopserroc ylhguor mrofer lacitilop fo ytrap taerg eht erew stedac eht sessalc deitreporp eht morf slarebil fo desopmoc rast eht rednu . modeerf selpoep eht fo ytrap si eman laiciffo sti . starcomed lanoitutitsnoc eman sti fo slaitini eht morf dellacos . stedac . 2 . nigluhs oknaizdor koob siht ni sevitatneserper . emmargorp lacitilop rieht rof dnats ot seerged yb emac stedac eht sa stedac eht denioj srebmem rieht ro dnuorgrednu dekrow rehtie yeht ylnepo detsixe regnol on snoitcaf lufrewop
 dah aissur . eueuq ni gnidnats fo ytlucaf rieht yb srehto lla evoba dehsiugnitsid sa elpoep hcnerf eht debircsed sah noitulover hcnerf sih ni elylrac . . . . smra rieht ni seibab htiw emos nemow yltsom nwad erofeb mrof ot gninnigeb liat tsovk eht nees evah i gniteem thginlla na morf emoh gnimoc . niar llihc eht ni sruoh gnol eueuq ni dnats ot dah eno occabot dna ragus dna daerb dna klim rof . . . . renrocteerts eht no eceipa elbur a naht ssel elttil a rof dlos sraep dna selppa nosaes tiurf eht ni . shtnom rof ti was reven sesuoh etavirp dna sletoh tsom ytic eht ni seibab eht flah tuoba rof klim saw ereht . rallod a tsael taselbur net ot neves morf erehwyna tsoc ydnac sseletsat fo dnuop a ro etalocohc fo rab a . modles saw hcihw lla ta ti teg dluoc eno fihtnom a sdnuop owt fo etar eht ta ot deltitne saw eno ragus . lla ta daerb yna tuohtiw keew a saw ereht dne eht drawot . dnuopretrauq a dna flah sretrauq eerht neht dnuop a ot flah a dna dnuop a morf llef daerb fo ecnawolla yliad eht . recracs emaceb doof kee
na deklat dekool sredael eht woh dna elpoep eht detamina hcihw tirips eht 7191 rebmevon ni dargortep ni deneppah tahw wonk ot tnaw lliw yeht os enummoc sirap eht fo yrots eht fo sliated tsetunim eht rof sdrocer eht hcraes snairotsih sa tsuj . ecnatropmi ediwdlrow fo nonemonehp a ikivehslob eht fo esir eht dna yrotsih namuh fo stneve taerg eht fo eno si noitulover naissur eht taht elbainednu si ti msivehslob fo skniht eno tahw rettam on . noitartsinimda lacol fo ksat eht emussa ot deraperp seituped stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo steivos erew ereht ecnivorp dna tcirtsid ytic nwot egalliv yreve ni . yrtsudni fo lortnoc srekrow noitarepo otni tup ot ereht erew snoinu edart eht dna seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf eht . stnasaep eht gnoma detubirtsid eb dluoc setatse taerg eht fo dnal eht hcihw yb pu tes neeb dah yrenihcam eht ydaerla . serised elpmis dna tsav rieht no gnihtyreve gnikats dna sessam gniliot eht fo daeh eht ta yrotsih otni gnipeews nopu dekrabme reve dniknam suollevram tsom eht fo eno dna saw ti erutnevda .
n suoremun erom ytic eht revo lla derrucco hcihw sgniteem ralupop taerg eht fo eno ot enredom euqric eht ot revir eht ssorca tnew i ecaep ecaep gniyrc snoitageled fo sderdnuh nopu sderdnuh rieht latipac eht otni gniruop gnisir aes eht ekil derrits seimra saissur ni nem fo snoillim eht tnorf fo selim dnasuoht a gnola meht del evah seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo scitcat gnisimorpmoc eht erehw ees deirc ikivehslob eht dna tnalibuj saw sserp naissur evitavresnoc eht siht ta . . . . ti gnitcudnoc fo sdohtem eht ylno tub lla ta raw eht fo smia eht ssucsid ton lliw ecnerefnoc sirap eht wonk i sa raf sa yldloc dednopser noitseuq a ot rewsna ni snommoc fo esuoh hsitirb eht ni wal ranob yllanif dna detsetorp srodassabma deilla eht zakan sih dna veileboks ot detcejbo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . snoitcurtsni 5 . tces ii . ppa ees zakan suomaf eht otsefinam a pu werd dna meht rof kaeps ot veileboks esohc steivos eht . sriaffa ngierof fo retsinim oknehctseret dna nam yratilim yranoitcaer veyexela larenegs
did dnatnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht ot nevenoitulover eht ot snamreg eht derreferp sessalc deitreporp eht fo noitces egral a . . . . sevitomocol gnilppirc fo tca eht ni srekrow eht yb thguac slaiciffo daorliar fo tfel yeht nehw redro fo tuo yrenihcam eht tup sreenigne esohw wocsom ta seirotcaf elitxet fo srenwo rieht yb dedoolf dna derif erew hcihw vokrahk raen senimlaoc niatrec fo wonk i . egdelwonk nwo sih morf siht demrifnoc noitnem ot ton desimorp i eman esohw tamolpid deilla na . noitulover eht tidercsid ot ngiapmac a fo trap saw efil cimonoce syrtnuoc eht fo nwodkaerb eht taht em dlot ytrap tedac eht fo hcnarb dargortep eht fo yraterces eht . seettimmoc sreidlos eht htiw noitarepooc ot retsasid yratilim derreferp ylknarf ohw tnorf nrehtron eht no sreciffo tem yllanosrep evah i tub . hctip a hcus ot poleved dluohs raw ssalc eht taht elbidercni si ti snacirema ot 9191 . y. n thgirevil dna inob . deer nhoj yb ksovtiltserb ot volinrok ees ytud sti fo esnes a ot yrtnuoc eht gnignirb fo ecirp eht agir htiw yap 
deliam eht delaever ylneddus saw mih dniheb . aissur fo rotatcid yratilim flesmih ekam ot dargortep no dehcram volinrok lareneg rebmetpes ni mrots gnimoc eht ii retpahc . . . . dellornu sessam naissur eht fo gnisir eht fo tnaegap eht taht noitargetnisid dna tnemref ni noitan elohw a fo dnuorgkcab siht tsniaga saw ti ecivres srast eht fo yrevil debircserp eht raew ton did eh esuaceb dettimda ton saw dna sehtolc nailivic ni yad eno etanes eht fo gniteem a ot emac noitulover fo edit lluf ni ohw volokos rotanes fo yrots eht si ereht . . . . enna . ts fo ssorc eht ylbissop dna noisnep elbatrofmoc a no tnemeriter fo tcepsorp eht htiw rollicnuoc yvirp ro rossessa etaigelloc fo knar nihct detevoc eht ot meht ecnavda dluow sroirepus rieht gnoma ytilatrom a taerg woh spahrep gnitaluclac snoitutitsni tnemnrevog ro seirtsinim ekilkcarrab eguh eht ni krow morf emoh gniog soiloftrop htiw mrofinu ni nemeltneg dlo deudbus fo lluf erew steerts eht noonretfa eht ni kcolco evif tuoba gnola . partsredluohs dna nottub no rorepme 
aulav erom raf tub . etnetne dna eissur ed lanruoj srepap hcnerf owt eht fo dna swen yliad naissur eht repap hsilgne eht fo selif fo debircsed emit eht fo yad yreve tsomla gnirevoc srepapswen naissur detrossa derdnuh lareves fo elif suoenegoreteh a nopu revewoh deiler osla evah i . seton nwo ym morf si koob siht ni lairetam eht fo hcum secruos . noitaicnunorp rieht fo noitamixorppa tselpmis eht ot redaer gnikaepshsilgne eht dael dluow hcihw gnilleps eht evig ot deirt evah tub noitaretilsnart rof selur cifitneics yna wollof ot tpmetta on edam evah i sdrow dna seman naissur fo gnilleps eht ni . reilrae syad neetriht saw hcihw radnelac naissur remrof eht fo daetsni tuohguorht radnelac ruo koob siht ni detpoda evah i gnilleps dna ygolonorhc . seituped stnasaep fo steivos eht fo smia yranoitulover dna rewop gniworg eht thgif ot stnasaep suorepsorp erom eht fo noisserpxe lacitilop eht emoceb dah ti revewoh 7191 ni . noitasinagro stnasaep yranoitulover a saw noinu stnasaep eht 5091 ni . noinu stnasaep . aedi yratili
erised elpmis edurc eht koot yeht llits tnetop erom tub . ymene rettib rieht tsilaicos etaredom saw steivos eht fo ytirojam eht emit taht ta rof gnikeesfles ylerem ton erew yeht dnasteivos eht ot rewop lla sessam eht ot raed os nagols eht niaga desiar ikivehslob eht . etufer dluoc ydobon tnemugra na saw tnemnrevog lanoisivorp gnignahcreve eht fo noisicedni dna ecnetopmi eht . deniamer xis ylno litnuliab on ro lanimon no lairt tuohtiw nosirp morf desaeler stnemucod nossis suomaf eht fo trap erew ikivehslob eht eno yb eno dna seiregrof eb ot derevocsid erew ycaripsnoc namregorp gnivorp stnemucod eht snoitasucca sti etaitnatsbus ot elbanu flesti dnuof tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht tub . ti deveileb dlrow eht revo lla elpoep litnu stnega namreg erew ikivehslob eht taht yrc eht desiar seiranoitcaer dna srotacovorp . desserppus erew srepap kivehslob eht ecitsuj morf sevitiguf gnidih otni tnew veivoniz dna ninel veinemak dna iatnollok emadam ykztort meht gnoma denosirpmi erew sderdnuh ikivehslob eht fo tnuh egavas a de
yb no derif neht dna devrats dna dednuorrus neeb dah yeht . aissur ot tnes eb ot gnidnamed akinolas ot og ot redro na desufer dah dna emoh ta sedarmoc rieht ekil seettimmoc sreidlos htiw sreciffo sti ecalper ot deirt dah edagirb tsrif eht . tnetnocsid eht ot dedda ecnarf ni spoort naissur fo tnemtaert eht fo swen . . . 6 . tces ii . ppa ees . aissur fo esnepxe eht ta ecaep fo sruomur emac eporue morf . . . . htiw thgif ot noitinumma hguone ro no evil ot doof hguone su evig tnseod emit emas eht ta dna sgniht hcus fo klat ot neve su sdibrof tnemnrevog eht won tub . ecaep gnirb dluow noitulover eht taht thguoht ew . meht stroppus tnemnrevog yranoituloverretnuoc eht dna srotatiga ruo ot ytlanep htaed eht ylppa yeht ymene eht ot su yarteb yeht seettimmoc ruo htiw krow ton lliw sreciffo eht yrellitra nairebis htxisytrof eht rof . . . . ymra eht troppus ro raw eht dne tnemnrevog eht tel rehtie . . . seilppus ro ecaep . sehcnert ytpme ylno tfel eb lliw ereht noos ro stnemecrofnier dna stoob dna doof su evig tsum yeht
gruob eht taht tuo deirc sessam etarepsed eht . gnisolc seirotcaf gninessel doof nwod gnikaerb erew syawliar eht . msaisuhtne tuohtiw eid dna evrats ot deunitnoc seimra elbaresim tnorf gnizeerf eht no . noitulover fo su dir lliw ti won spahrep . dneirf tseb saissur syawla saw retniw os ti fo kaeps nem ssenisub draeh i . retniw naissur elbirret ehtno gnimoc saw retniw . . . . smra fo ecrof yb desrepsid eb nac ti seicnednet naipotu yna stsefinam ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht elpmaxe rof fi ro . . . . seitilamrof lagel tuohtiw nemeltneg eseht htiw laed nac tcirtsid eht fo rednammoc yratilim eht dna deralced egeis fo etats a neht dargortep etaucave nac tnemnrevog eht . sdohtem owt fo eno yb htiw yawa enod eb lliw yeht ikivehslob eht rof sa . yrtsudni fo tnemeganam eht ni erahs yna srekrow eht wolla ot ro seettimmoc pohs srekrow eht fo ecnetsixe eht timrep ot srerutcafunam dna stnahcrem rof elbissopmi eb dluow ti deneppah revetahw taht noinipo sih ni citahpme saw vozonail . rm . . . . sesnes rieht ot elpoep naissur eht
ger citcra eht dna stresed eht ot delixe dna liaj naissur yreve ni sdnasuoht yb denosirpmi assedo dna agir wocsom ni sderdnuh yb detucexe nwod tohs sevlesmeht evah ton did aissur fo nemgnikrow eht . ssalc tsilatipac eht . e. i rehtona rof topsed eno egnahcxe ot suoixna yrev ton erew yeht tub nwo rieht ot elbareferp erew snoitutitsni lacitilop nacirema ruo taht deerga lla erew srekrow eht yeht . raen sward taht tcilfnoc rettib eht ni rehto eht ro edis eno ekat sessalc rehto eht taht sksa ylerem eh . sessalc rehto fo ecnetsixe eht erongi ton seod eh tub . hsinif a ot ssalc tsilatipac eht rosserppo sih thgif ot gnilliw dna ydaer si eh . ecneirepxe lautca morf meht tuoba denrael sah eh dlrow eht fo srekrow eht fo enola dna meht deiduts sah eh tub sedacirrab rof ydaer si eh . tnegilletninu ron citamgod tneloiv rehtien si eh tub yranoitulover si namkrow naissur eht . evrats ot eunitnoc llits thgim yeht sessalc laicos rehto fo sdnah eht otni llef ti fi tnemnrevog eerf a rednu neve taht elbissop saw ti was elpoep gni
nec a ro eettimmoc lartnec a detcele snoitnevnoc eseht fo hcae . cte seitilanoitan sevitarepooc ecivres lavan dna yratilim eht fo hcnarb yreve sedisebseettimmoc teelf dna ymra seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf snoinu edart steivos stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo sessergnoc lanoitan erew ereht . dargortep ta dleh erew noitasinagro fo tros yreve fo snoitnevnoc naissurlla 7191 fo remmus dna gnirps eht ni seettimmoc lartnec . yvan eht ni snoitasinagro gnidnopserroc eht . seettimmoc teelf . 8 . spoort fo dnammoc eht neve sesac emos ni dna tnemtraped sretsamretrauq eht fo krow eht fo tsom seettimmoc ymra eht fo sredluohs eht nopu werht noitulover eht nopu tnedicni ymra eht ni nwodkaerb evitartsinimda eht . ffats lareneg eht htiw detarepooc eettimmoc ymra lartnec eht . eettimmoc ymra eht detcele saw hcihw fo lla revo eettimmoc sti dah sproc dna noisivid edagirb tnemiger ynapmoc yreve . sreciffo emiger dlo eht fo ecneulfni yranoitcaer eht tabmoc ot tnorf eht ta sreidlos eht yb demrof erew seettimmoc ymra eht . seettimmoc ymra 
amud lairepmi eht ni ikivodurt eht fo redael eht saw yksnerek . sevitatneserper tnasaep fo ylegral desopmoc saw hcihw amud lairepmi htruof eht ni puorg ruobal eht fo noitidart gnisimorpmoc eht fo srotirehni tnecsed tcerid yb . cte srepeekpohs skrelceisioegruob yttep eht fo stseretni eht detroppus yllaer stsilupop eht stsilaicos eb ot gnisseforp . stnasaep evitavresnoc dna seiteicos evitarepooc eht fo sredael eht slautcelletni suoituac fo desopmoc ytrap llams a yllaciremun . puorg ruobal ikivodurt ro stsilaicos tsilupop . 3 . volavonok vozonail puorg eht fo lacipyt . noitasinagro cimonocenopaew nwo rieht yb thguof eb tsum steivos eht taht esilaer ot hguone tnegilletni erew ohw srerutcafunam dna stnahcrem sreknab nredom erom eht fo desopmoc saw ti . nigluhs dna oknaizdor ekil nem erew sredael lautcelletni sti hguohtla nasitrapnon flesti deralced puorg eht . tenibac yksnerek tsal eht ni soiloftrop nevig erew nem cilbup fo puorg eht morf setageled . wocsom ni demrof saw nem cilbup fo puorg eht noituloverretnuoc v
yeht yluj ni . sessam naissur eht derutpac yldipar ikivehslob eht eisioegruob eht htiw esimorpmoc ni sevlesmeht devlovni seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem istnorobo eht elihw os dna . emmargorp etaidemmi rieht tliub meht morf dna stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow eht fo serised elpmis edurc eht koot yeht llits tnetop erom tub . ymene rettib rieht tsilaicos etaredom saw steivos eht fo ytirojam eht emit taht ta rof gnikeesfles ylerem ton erew yeht dnasteivos eht ot rewop lla sessam eht ot raed os nagols eht niaga desiar ikivehslob eht . etufer dluoc ydobon tnemugra na saw tnemnrevog lanoisivorp gnignahcreve eht fo noisicedni dna ecnetopmi eht . deniamer xis ylno litnuliab on ro lanimon no lairt tuohtiw nosirp morf desaeler stnemucod nossis suomaf eht fo trap erew ikivehslob eht eno yb eno dna seiregrof eb ot derevocsid erew ycaripsnoc namregorp gnivorp stnemucod eht snoitasucca sti etaitnatsbus ot elbanu flesti dnuof tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht tub . ti deveileb dlrow eht revo lla elpoep litnu stnega namreg e
v atondeyb ayaksnevered stnasaep eht rof repap wen a deraeppa ereht reidlos tadlos dna tup ihctobar srepap ytrap owt eht sediseb . dednapxe ylneddus sserp kivehslob eht htrae eht fo ecaf eht morf mucs ekil yawa meht peews lliw ew tairatelorp eht fo snoitasinagro eht nopu sdnah rieht yal ot erad yeht fi tahtraf oot og nac yeht taht wonk meht tel tub . su ekovorp ot gniyrt era yeht . su ezeerf dna su evrats ot gniyrt era yeht . ti ot desu teg tsum ew tub dab si noitautis cimonoce eht . sdrow ton sdeed rof emit eht si won elbacalpmi deciovwols thgils yksvortep emac neht noitulover laicos eht rof thgif dna esir ot srekrow nacirema eht llet su pleh dna esir dlrow eht fo selpoep eht litnu htgnerts ruo lla htiw trof eht dloh lliw ew . eid yeht litnu noitulover rieht pu evig reven lliw snaissur eht taht acirema ot drow yrrac ot sedarmoc nacirema eht ksa i . nosaer on rof gniyd era ew . dloc htiw ffits era ew tnorf eht ta gnivrats era ew sedarmoc deirc ecreif dna lacigart niht tnorf nainamur eht morf reidlos a . volin