serutseg tneloiv sih htiw gnilims syawla reidlos decafediw tauqs eht oknelyrk peels fo ssol htiw knurd yhtlif ralloc sih nevahsnu vonotna noitcerrusni fo ygetarts eht deviecnoc niarb esohw naillivic dedraeb niht eht yksiovdop dessap ereht . . . . nottub a fo hsup eht ta evom ot ydaer si gnihtyreve hcnerf ni dias tnanetueil a fo mrofinu eht ni nam decafyspyg a meht fo eno . ytic eht fo sretrauq tsehtraf eht ot drow yrrac ot ydaer sreetnulov nezod a detiaw rood eht edistuo . tnew dna emac srassimmoc dna sreiruoc fo maerts ydaets a . . . . sutarappa hpargonohpelet yratilim fo snaem yb dehsilbatse saw skcarrab dna seirotcaf eht htiw noitacinummoc tub ffo tuc erew dias eh senohpelet lla snoitcurtsni rehtruf litnu era uoy erehw yats . noitulover eht fo eman eht ni uoy teerg ew srehtorb drow kcab tnes eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht . . . . steivos eht ot rewop lla noituloser a dessap tsuj evah ew yas ot tog uoy evah tahw . deksa yeht rettam eht stahw . su ot noitageled a tnes dna anihctag ta niart eht deppots 
demra lla dna secrof kivehslob eht htiw erefretni ot stpmetta lla taht deralced dna egeis fo etats a demialcorp yltnioj teelf citlab eht fo eettimmoc lartnec tlabortnest eht dna srofgnisleh fo teivos eht . gnirrits erew sgniht osla dnalnif ni . ikivehslob eht tsniaga elggurts eht nommoc ni esinagro nac ew erehw ksakrehctovon ot elbissop fi emoc ot cilbuper eht fo licnuoc eht fo srebmem eht dna tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht setivni spoort kcassoc eht fo tnemnrevog eht yksnerek ot dehpargelet ksakrehctovon ta tnemnrevog kcassoc eht . elpoep eht fo tnemnrevog eht ot sgniteergdargortep otni deruop sgniteerg aes ediw eht no spihs seimra dna stnemiger senummoc tnasaep seirotcaf fo sdnasuoht morf . emalf otni tsrub raw livic segalliv elttil dna seitic taerg ni aes kcalb eht no lopotsaves ot voksp morf airebis raf ni atihc ot adgolov morf ton erad yeht . nezitic yranidro eht deirc nilmerk eht drabmob . wollof dluow tnemdrabmob ro nilmerk eht fo rednerrus etaidemmi eht gnidnamed ytefas cilbup fo eettimmoc eht ot mutamitl
t eb ton nac kivehslob eman eht . stnasaep roop eht fo noitces egral a fo osla tub srekrow yrotcaf eht fo ylfeihc serised eht sesserpxe ytrap siht . snoitutitsni laicnanif dna secruoser larutan dnal yrtsudni revo gnikat ylbicrof yb msilaicos fo gnimoc eht netsah ot redro ni tnemnrevog fo snier eht fo eruzies dna noitcerrusni nairatelorp etaidemmi desoporp ikivehslob eht . seirtnuoc lla ni stsilaicos ytirojam dellacos eht dna ikivehsnem eht setanimod hcihw msilaicos yratnemailrap ro etaredom fo noitidart eht morf noitarapes etelpmoc rieht esisahpme ot redro ni ytrap tsinummoc eht sevlesmeht llac won . ikivehslob . c . vonitram votram sredael rieht gnoma . puorg siht fo rebmem a gnol saw ykztort . ikivehslob eht yb detacovda ssalcgnikrow eht fo pihsrotatcid eht ot desoppo dna ikivehsnem evitavresnoc eht morf esool kaerb ot gnilliwnu tey sessalc deitreporp eht htiw noitilaoc lla ot desoppo dna stsilanoitanretni ikivehsnem eht fo gniw lacidar eht . stsilanoitanretni ikivehsnem . b . illeterest rebeil nad era koob
htiw doots reciffo na dna reidlos a sdraug der owt . detsop seirtnes teg ew litnu srassimmoc eht tpecxe ecalap eht fo tuo ydobyreve . stidnab dna seveiht ton erew taht wohs stel sedarmoc emoc . rood renni na hguorht daeh sih gnikcits draug der a delwab ecalap eht raelc . dehsilbatse gnieb osla saw redro ereht . gniw tsew eht ni ecnartne tfel eht ot revo kcab dessorc ew . . . . elpoep eht fo ytreporp enilpicsid yranoitulover ecnatsid eht ni retniaf dna retniaf gniworg draeh eb dluoc yrc eht sesacriats pu dna srodirroc hguorht . suoenatnops ylrettu lla saw ti . draug doots slenitnes detnioppafles dna sesac rieht ni kcab demmarc erew sgniht eht ylitsah dna ylhguor . kcolc eznorb eht yawa koot nem owt meht dah ohw esoht fo smra eht morf dehctans erew yrtsepat dna ksamad . nwod sreliops eht deggard sdnah ynam elpoep eht fo ytreporp gnihtyna ekat tnod kcab gnihtyreve tup pots gniyrc erew seciov ytnewt yletaidemmi elpoep eht fo ytreporp eht si siht gnihtyna ekat tnod gnihtyna hcuot tnod sedarmoc deirc ydobemos nehw 
ehporp noitavo ythgim a htiw democlew deraeppa dah ninel . stnasaep dna srekrow sreidlos eht fo sdeen eht yfsitas ot tub mia rehto on evah lliw hcihw rewop a dnuof ot gniog era ew yrotsih ni euqinu tnemirepxe na yrt ot gniog era seituped stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo steivos eht ew . elpoep eht evieced ot si dias eh stnemnrevog sioegruob fo citsiretcarahc eht . detsixe regnol on tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht taht deralced dah ykztort eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht fo eman eht ni . noisses suotnemom a neeb dah ti . . . . eugnot elbirret sninel fo hsal eht tlef dna noitcerrusni eht desoppo htob dah veinemak dna vonazair . ffo nar dna yldetcartsid dnah sih devaw eh aissur lla evom tnow ssalcgnikrow naeporue eht . detuohs eh enasni enasni sti . draeb yerg sih gnitib dna kcalb gnikool snoinu edart eht fo tnediserpeciv vonazair tem i gnidnal eht no . . . . gninnigeb tsuj si ti . hcum ylbirroh . od ot hcum si ereht . sredluohs sih detfil eh neht now ti redisnoc uoy . yrotciv gnitsal dna laer a ot msilaicos fo 
erew ew edarmoc em rebmemer uoy tnod . dnah sih tuo gnidloh dias eh hctiveilisav ialocin . drawrof deppets dna erusaelp fo yrc a evag nam gnuoy gnikooldezilivic reppad a saw ohw dneirf ym . oknelyrk saw ti . eugitaf emertxe fo nirg dexif eht eb ot was eno etunim a retfa elims hcihwgnilims eb ot demees ohw aingisni tuohtiw mrofinu a ni nam decaftalf tauqs a tohs tuo dna denepo rood eht . gniog dna gnimoc suoiruf eht lla fo tsdim eht ni ereht doots dna eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht fo eciffo 71 moor ot tsal ta emac eh os . . . . aiztnegilletni naissur eht fo nemiceps laer a saw eh . seitilibisnes citehtsea tuohtiw snosrep tnarongi edur nommoc erew yeht taht em ot dedifnoc eh ikivehslob eht rof sa . . . . ecnarf ni elixe tnasaelp dna gnol sih seitivitca yranoitulover tneicna sih debircsed noinapmoc ym tnew ew sa . ssergnoc eht fo ydob gninrevog eht dnif ot erehw aedi tsethgils eht evah ot demees ydobon . ynloms tsav hguorht derednaw ew moor ot moor morf . teivos dargortep eht fo uaerub eht ni ron eciffo h
 siht ni denoitnem snoitcaf dna spuorg eht ot detimil si seitrap lacitilop fo noitisopmoc dna smia eht fo yrammus gniwollof eht tub ytrof sa ynam sa snwot laicnivorp eht fo emos ni dna dargortep ni stekcit neetneves erew ereht ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht ot snoitcele eht ni seitrap lacitilop . snoitanalpxe dna snoitinifed feirb wef a ereh gnivig ma i nosaer siht rof . gnisufnoc ylemertxe evorp lliwsnoinu dna samud steivos seettimmoc lartnec dna seettimmoc spuorg lacitilopsnoitasinagro naissur fo yticilpitlum eht redaer egareva eht ot snoitanalpxe dna seton . 9191 ts1 yraunaj kroy wen . r . j . hturt eht nwod gnittes ni detseretni retroper suoitneicsnoc a fo eye eht htiw stneve ees ot deirt evah i syad taerg esoht fo yrots eht gnillet ni tub . lartuen ton erew seihtapmys ym elggurts eht ni . koob siht nettirw evah i taht weiv ni siht htiw si ti . detca dna deklat dekool sredael eht woh dna elpoep eht detamina hcihw tirips eht 7191 rebmevon ni dargortep ni deneppah tahw wonk ot tnaw lliw yeht os enummoc sirap eht 
sni lla sserper ot gninetaerht redro retfa redro deussi vokinvoklop . syad yluj eht ecnis emit tsrif eht rof steerts eht ni ecnaraeppa rieht edam skcassoc fo slortap . ecalap retniw eht otni nward saw yrellitra reknuy eht . dargortep ot deredro erew snoisivid detarapesylediw morf stnemiger layol tsom eht fo niatrec ylsuoucipsnocni . gniraperp saw tnemnrevog eht edis sti no . latipac eht fo eruzies eht rof snalp luferac gniward saw eh reyalpssehc dna naicitamehtam vonotna dellac okneesva niatrec a elixe dna tsinoitulover neht rast eht fo seimra eht ni reciffo na ecno laudividni deriahgnol decafniht a tas moor sriatspu niatrec a ni ti htiw od ot gniog uoy era tahw rewop eht si ereh ti ot yas yam ew taht os steem ssergnoc eht yad eht ht7 eht no tca tsum ew . noitca evisiced tfiws ekat ot elpoep fo ydob desinagro egral a rof tluciffid si ti dna desinagro eb lliw ssergnoc eht emit taht yb . etal oot eb lliw ht8 rebmevon dnah rehto eht no . . . . devirra evah ton lliw ssergnoc eht ot setageled eht lla ht6 eht no dn
p fo noitasinagro tsrif saw veinemak dias yad eht fo redro eht noitcerrusni fo edit lluf ni aissur taerg fo mleh eht ecalp emerpus siht ot oga shtnom ruof naht ssel tces detnuh dna desipsed a morf ikivehslob eseht deraos dah yeht raf woh . gnirednuht esor llah eht . . . . nigon iatnellok emadam yksrahctanul veinemak ykztort deraeppa secalp rieht ni dna nwod deppets hakeeyast dlo eht neht . ecalp a deviecer dna dednamed setageled naeniarku eht fo evitatneserper a stsilaicos sevlesruoy llac uoy sedagener eciov eno . stooh dna esualppa gnirettacs . muidiserp eht retne ton dluoc oot yeht secnatsmucric niatrec fo noitacifirev eht litnu taht stsilanoitanretni ikivehsnem eht morf dna ikivehsnem eht rof kuhctnik morf emas eht muidiserp eht ni trap ekat ot desufer yeht taht dias seiranoitulover tsilaicos ertnec dna thgir eht rof nnamledneh . puorg sykrog tsilanoitanretni 1 dna ikivehsnem 3 seiranoitulover tsilaicos 7 ikivehslob 41tluser ytironim eht erew ew nehw ikivehslob su ot did uoy tahw rebmemer meht ta detuohs r
nivnoc srolias dnasuoht evifytnewt erew tdatsnorc ta rof gnimoc era sialliesram eht dias dah eno emos sirap fo steerts eht no 2971 ni fi sa saw ti . . . gnimoc si tdatsnorc dias meht fo eno . teelf citlab eht fo sresiurc kivehslob gnidael eht fo seman ehtydobovs airaz dna arorva erew sdnab tah srolias eht no . sreidlos eht fo owt htiw noitasrevnoc otni llef dna yldeticxe gnihgual gnola emac selfir htiw srolias xis ro evif . yksven eht pu kcab detcerid gnieb senihcam gnineppah saw gniht emas eht lardehtac nazak eht fo tnorf ni pu . eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht ro tnemnrevog eht ot degnoleb sreidlos eht rehtehw wenk ydobon . meht hctaw ot derehtag dah dworc egral a . ecalap retniw eht drawot meht gniredro dna stnapucco eht tuo gninrut selibomotua etavirp lla gnippots erew stenoyab dexif htiw sreidlos fo sdauqs yksven eht dna ayaksrom eht fo renroc eht ta tnemnrevog eht fo msicitirc a sa tnaem ton saw ti taht yksnerek ot denialpxe yeht . . . . esimorpmoc tsal rieht demrofrep sresimorpmoc eht fo sredael e
si msivehslob rof ydemer eht dias hcihw semit nodnol eht morf lairotide na duola gnidaer saw nilerak yranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht ni emac i sa . . . . retsasid osrac eht yb detartsorp saw dias ydobyreve ohw rodassabma nailati eht tpecxe tneserp stamolpid eht lla . riaffa iksvohkrevveztrub eht fo seohce . ycilop ngierof soknehctseret no etabed rettib . cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht ni gnineppah saw tahw ees ot ecalap yksniram eht ta ni deppord i ht5 eht gninrom yadnom . . . . rehtraf on seog ytirohtua sti . yelrap ot stnesnoc ohw eno yna htiw etaitogen ylno nac ti secnatsmucric elbaruovaf tsom eht ni . . . . ecrof esu ot sutarappa yrassecen eht ssessop ton seod ti dna ytirohtua larom on sah ti . rewop a regnol on si tnemnrevog eht egeis fo etats eht yhw yllacinori dekramer semit wen aymerv eyovon sioegruob eht hcihw nopuegeis fo etats a ni deralced erew dnalnif dna tdatsnorc dargortep . yksnihctlap dna grubnetur ralupopnu ssel on nem owt stnatsissa sa deman eh dargortep ni redro peek ot rassimmoc lai
 yletaidemmi esoporp i dna thgir eht fo weiv fo tniop eht ta flesym ecalp i . . . aissur ot nosaert fo stca sa ytrap lacitilop naissur a fo stca hcus ytilauq i ytilibisnopser ym fo ssensuoicsnoc lluf ni enubirt siht morf esac yna ni tub ylsuoicsnocnu ro ylsuoicsnoc tca yeht fi rettam elttil elpoep eseht fo sevitom eht tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht ot rettam elttil . . . . sdneirf sih dna mlehliw fo stsif nori eht ot tnorf naissur eht nepo yeht dna sessalc gninrevog namreg eht fo tub tairatelorp namreg eht fo dia eht ot emoc ton od noitcerrusni eht fo sresinagro eht . . . . . . . yksnerek tnediserpretsinim eht eisioegruob eht ot flesmih dlos sah ohw nam a dna reprusu a ytrap siht fo seye eht ni si hcihw fo daeh eht ta tnemnrevog lanoisivorp a yb deretsinimda aissur ni won niatbo ytrap lacitilop a fo noitca eerf eht rof snoitidnoc tcefrep tsom eht taht ylticilpmi suht esingocer noilleber fo sresinagro eht deunitnoc neht yksnerek . . . snoitasinagro yranoitcerrusni dna stsinoitulover namreg eht troppus ot esufer ew
 egar gniwolleb seipoc dnasuoht derdnuh a fo noitide na ni deraeppa solog ikstadlos ot eman sti gnignahc revewoh hcihwhakeeyast dlo eht fo lanruoj atadlos solog eht neve sesserp eht morf nrot erew srepapswen sioegruob eht lla . tnemnrevogfles lapicinum eht fo nitellub ayinelvarpuomas ovoksdorog kintseiv ehtnagro lapicinum laiciffo eht desserppus dna amud eht fo tsetorplaeppa eht fo seipoc fo sdnasuoht detacsifnoc tnemnrevog ytic eht fo eciffo gnitnirp eht deretne sdraug der eht gninrom eht ni evif ta . . . . ecadual ed sruojuot te ecadual ed erocne ecadual ed . efil sti rofkcurts eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht llaw eht tsniaga kcab 1 . tces iv . ppa ees . meht revo gnirewot smrots lla htiw gninrom llihc yerg taht enola doots yltnerappa ikivehslob fo lufdnah eht enola doots nem reve fi . tsugua fo tnemnrevog tsilaicoslla eht yb detaerc owt ylno ehtseilppus fo dna ruobal fo seirtsinim eht yb del ekirts no erew seirtsinim neetxis dargortep ni . . . . stenalp wen fo tsurc gniloocylwols eligarf eht dnasselit
 dedifnoc eh ikivehslob eht rof sa . . . . ecnarf ni elixe tnasaelp dna gnol sih seitivitca yranoitulover tneicna sih debircsed noinapmoc ym tnew ew sa . ssergnoc eht fo ydob gninrevog eht dnif ot erehw aedi tsethgils eht evah ot demees ydobon . ynloms tsav hguorht derednaw ew moor ot moor morf . teivos dargortep eht fo uaerub eht ni ron eciffo hakeeyast eht ni ydobon saw ereht . muidiserp eht fo emoceb dah tahw tuo dnif dna og ew taht em ot desoporp srepap sioegruob eht rof gnitirw saw ohw tsihcrana na llah gib eht ni elbat sserp eht ta tas ew sa retal elttil a gniwollof era yeht . ninel dias ees . eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht ni niamer dluow yeht taht yas ot seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht morf drow emac neves tsap setunim evif ta . no og llahs ew sreidlos dna srekrow eht yb dekcab srotailicnoc dna sdrawoc eht fo tser eht htiw evael meht tel erad ew tahw erad ot lliw eht dna egaruoc eht tnevah ohw ereh sedarmoc era ereht fi . hcni na yaw evig tnow ew ni emoc nac yeht dna emmargorp ruo tpecca sres
ef rof eciov wol a ni . aet fo ssalg a gnillif nwod tas dna mih deknaht lenoloc eht . uoy evah ot dalg yrev eb llahs ew edarmoc sey . derewsna eh yadot ereh enod eb ot gnihtyna si ereht kniht ton od i . deredisnoc vonalkab uoy htiw og i dluoc . dias eh sedarmoc oles eyoksrast ot gniog erew uoy taht yas uoy draeh i kniht i . dlog htiw derediorbme epac nikstaog a ni erugif dehsiugnitsid llat a gnilims deretne eh . ylitraeh derewsna yeht misorp misorp . lenoloc eht deksa ni emoc i yam . gniteerg a detuohs lla tub esor eno on . lenoloc eht fo erugif eht doots ti ni dna denepo ti . rood eht no kconk a emac neht tsuj . oles eyoksrast ot og ot tops eht no dediced lufmoor elohw eht i dnai dna . ylneddus vonalkab dias oot i . oles eyoksrast ot gniog saw i taht dias i . . . . elbidercni si ti em ot tub yrtnuoc ruoy wonk ton od i rof noitcivnoc ot nepo ma i sgniht egnahc elpoep eht nac neht woh . struoc eht dna serutalsigel eht lortnoc tsum ssalc tsilatipac eht neht ssalc tsilatipac depoleved ylhgih a evah uoy tub . hcn
 der erew nem derdnuh eerht ro owt tsrif eht taht ees dluoc i swodniw ecalap retniw eht lla fo tuo demaerts taht thgil eht ni emit siht yb . drawrof wolf ot niaga nageb ylneddus sredro yna tuohtiw dna derussaer demees ymra eht nem fo sderdnuh emos ereht gnildduh setunim wef a retfa . . . . net tuoba . wonk tnod i . deksa i llik yeht did uoy fo ynam woh . nmuloc rednaxela eht fo latsedep eht dniheb ylneddus pu demmaj dna rehtegot gnihcnub dna wol gnipoots nur ot nageb ew nepo eht ni ylerus erif lliw yeht . meht tsurt tnod sedarmoc tuo kool eciov wol a ni dias em fo daeha tsuj nam eht erehw hcra der eht hguorht deruop ew reehc ro gnos tuohtiw teerts eht lla gnillif revir kcalb a ekil . sknar tsrif eht htiw ni llef ew . smra fo gniknilc eht dna teef fo elffuhs eht rof tub tnelis drawrof gnivom ssam krad a tuo edam ew moolg kciht eht ni dna sdnammoc evig ot nageb seciov tuo meht teg dna og ot su tnaw yeht drow tnes evah sreknuy eht gnituohs saw ydobemos ayaksrom eht ot emac ew sa tsuj . desaec dah gnitoohs eht . 
 regnad taerg a meht htiw yrrac sevlesmeht sruomur eseht tub . . . . ti htiw od ot gnihtyna evah yeht taht deined hakeeyast eht ni meht ot desserdda noitseuq a ot ikivehslob eht noitcerrusni hcaerp ohw srotatiga eseht sesirohtua noitasinagro tahw sruomur eseht fo ecruos eht si tahw . einnelputsyv dednetni na fo nwot eht dnuora gnidaerps era sruomur niaga ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo noitces yratilim eht morf siht ecnatsni rof . srotatiga ot netsil ot ton sreidlos dna srekrow eht gnirolpmi snoitartsnomed yna gnicnuoned hakeeyast eht dna snoitcaf evitavresnoc dna etaredom eht fo seettimmoc lartnec eht morf slaeppa snoitamalcorp 01 . tces ii . ppa ees sgninraw htiw derevoc erew sllaw eht cigam yb fi sa . ngiapmac fo nalp kivehslob terces eht laever ot desseforp hcihw pam a yb deinapmocca yrots lanoitasnes a dehsilbup yad neid kivehsnem eht ni vossertop . sruomur eht yned ot ikivehslob eht degru eh . volinrok wen a rof yaw eht eraperp dluow revewoh noitcerrusni na . ecneloiv ot ikivehslob eht gniticni ere
fni . seitrap rehto eht ot osuoydloti suoutpmetnoc fo tros a ssenisub elohw eht drawot edutitta lacinori dehcated a detpoda yllareneg eisioegruob eht dna deraeppa snagro tedac wef tahw . . . emmargorp ralupop eht fo noitasilaer eht erussa dna rewop yranoitulover eht esinagro ot yletinifed si driht eht . dargortep fo stnemele yranoituloverretnuoc eht mrasid ot yletinifed si dnoces eht . dargortep ot sehcaorppa eht draug ot si won ksat tsrif eht . . . . gnag sioegruob eht fo ynnaryt eht nwod kcurts uoy yadretsey . selbon fo euqilc eht fo ynnaryt eht nwod kcurts uoy hcram ni stnasaep sreidlos srekrow gniltsirb deworc ti . yluj ni desserppus neeb dah hcihw repapswen sninel advarp sa tuo demossolb tup ihctobar . . . niav detartsnomed htrofecneh erew eisioegruob eht htiw noitilaoc tuoba snoisulli lla taht ylraelc yrev gniht eno tnaem noitcerrusni kivehslob eht taht tuo detniop dna ssergnoc eht gnittiuq ni ikivehsnem eht dna seiranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo noitca eht ylereves desicitirc seitrap tsilaicos eht lla et
f dehsalf seye sih . mih deksa i ereh uoy . aissur fo ycarcomed eht nopu noitilaoc decrof sresimorpmoc eht dna illeterest nehw thgin taht ikivehslob eht htiw rehteg ot ecnerefnoc citarcomed eht fo tuo deklaw dah ohw yranoitulover tsilaicos gnuoy a htiw noitasrevnoc otni tog ew . stedac eht dna ikivehslob eht htob gnidulcxe fo rovaf ni saw veileboks . . . . dehsurc ylsselicrem eb tsum ikivehslob eht . snamreg eht ot tnorf eht denepo dna raw livic detrats evah yeht . dias rekaeps eno aissur deyarteb evah yeht . . . . tsniaga ylrettib gnieb stnemele sioegruob eht dna sevitarepooc eht stsilaicos tsilupop eht sa llew sa seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem gniw thgir eht siht nopu dedivid hcum yrev erew snoinipo . ytrap lacitilop tnatropmi na detneserper yeht dias eh lla retfa noissimda rieht rof dedaelp votram tnemnrevog wen eht ot dettimda eb ot ikivehslob eht erew noissucsid toh a dewollof . . . . ynloms htiw rettam eht gnissucsid won erew setageled sti dna tnemnrevog wen eht gnimrof ni evitaitini eht gnika
d em ediseb tas ohw nam decafnailognom deyetnals a . ecalap retniw eht fo rednerrus eht retfa tsuj kcurtrotom a morf etubirtsid ot depleh ew hcihw radnelac ruo ht7 rebmevon fo thgin eht no eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht yb deussi tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht fo llaf eht fo noitamalcorp 111 swollof eltit naissur ni noitamalcorp 69egap cihparg . seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo teivos dargortep eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim stnasaep dna sreidlos nemkrow fo noitulover eht evil gnol . deveihca yleruces si esuac tahttnemnrevog teivos a fo noitaerc noitcudorp revo lortnoc robal dnal eht revo sthgirytreporp droldnal fo noitiloba ecaep citarcomed a fo lasoporp etaidemmi gnithgif erew elpoep eht hcihw rof esuac eht . nosirrag dna tairatelorp dargortep eht fo daeh eht ta sdnats hcihw eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo teivos dargortep eht fo nagro eht fo sdnah eht otni dessap sah rewop etats eht . desoped si tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht aissur fo snezitic eht ot daer thgilteerts 
o fo thgin eht . m. a 01. 2 . ffats . ovoklup duola demialced eh ti daer tndluoc ew gniees neht dna licnep ni yldeirruh delbbircs repap fo teehs a tuo dleh eh siht ta kool dehsams si yksnerek . tnorf eht morf margelet . sdnah ym gnibbarg detuohs eh thgir lla sti . ecaf derugifsnart a htiw llah eht nwod gninnur emac eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht fo namztloh llah eht tfel ew sa nehw gninrom eht ni kcolco eerht tsomla saw ti . . . . ni deruop tnempiuqe dna smra rof ynloms ot gnimoc ro dednuow deveiler srehto tnorf eht ot og ot tnemhcated a hcus dna hcus fo srebmem eht rof gnilley ni emac nem emit ot emit morf . yllaunitnoc dewener dna gnignahc dewolf ecneidua eht . . . . traeh sih dna dnim sih kaeps ot pu gnidnats namkrow retfa namkrow reidlos retfa reidlos gniugra gnitrohxe gninialpxe redael retfa redael no deraor gniteem eht os . . . . su rof hguone doog si ti . meht ot wob ew os si taht fi . . . . emmargorp dnal rieht gnilaets htiw su egrahc yeht seiranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo snoitasucca eht rewsna 
ot seirtnuoc tneregilleb eht lla fo selpoep eht ot dna stnemnrevog eht lla ot sesoporp tnemnrevog eht . seirtnuoc lartuen eht ni sevitatneserper desirohtua sti stnioppa tnemnrevog eht srelrapruop eseht etatilicaf ot . sevitatneserper eseht fo ecnerefnoc a ta ro seirtnuoc tnereffid eht fo sevitatneserper eht neewteb srelrapruop yb ro tsop yb hpargelet yb snoitaitogen eseht no yrrac ot ydaer flesti seralced tnemnrevog eht ecaep rof snoitaitogen cilbup ni egagne ot selpoep lla dna stnemnrevog lla ot gnisoporp ni . noissucsid tuohtiw dna yletaidemmi tnemnrevog eht yb decnuoned era stsilairepmi naissur eht fo snoitaxenna eht tnemgua ro niatniam ot stsilatipac naissur rof segelivirp dna segatnavda erucorp ot tcejbo rieht rof evah sesac fo ytirojam a ni rucco sa hcihw seitaert terces eht fo sesualc eht lla . 7191 ht7 rebmevon litnu hcram morf stsilatipac dna srenwodnal fo tnemnrevog eht yb dedulcnoc ro demrifnoc seitaert terces lla fo noitacilbup lluf eht ot yletaidemmi deecorp lliw dna elpoep eht erofeb yad fo thgi
ec a lliw desinagro esohw yb ycarcomed yranoitulover eht fo secrof evil eht fo noinu esolc eht evresbo ew foereht ssensuoicsnoc ni dna devirra sah noitulover eht fo noitavlas eht rof ruoh taerg eht eb ot ton ro eb ot aissur sinoitseuq eht yllacirogetac dna ylhsrah os tup yrotsih did tey reven yteixna hcum os eticxe etats naissur eht fo ecnetsixe eht fo noitseuq eht did tey reven etuca os noitulover eht fo etaf eht saw dias eh tey reven . gnikaeps niaga saw veileboks dna noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht fo gniteem eht rof dedworc saw llah rednaxela eht edistuo . tsop sti evael ot esufer dluow ti noitalupop eht fo evitatneserper lagel eht sa dna ti evlossid ot ikivehslob eht fo ecanem eht tsniaga detsetorp amud eht taht tceffe eht ot noitom a gnittup teef sih no saw redierhcs . detcidni dna noitisop rieht morf degrahcsid eb eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht fo srassimmoc eb ot detnesnoc dah ohw seiranoitcnuf lapicinum lla taht dednamed neht tedac voiragnihs srotiart eht htiw nwod stnega namreg fo seirc yb dewollo
. . . lla meht gnoma snairatelorp eerht naht erom ees ton did i desserdllew defllew saw dworc amud siht . spmac lla tsomla fo slautcelletni stneduts stsilanruoj htiw revaniv keels ykstahs ylio ekil stedac htiw sredluohs debbursvonrehct sveilebokssretsinim tsilaicos remrof ehtsrebeil snad sveitneskvasredael yranoitulover laicos dna kivehsnem eht ereh ecnetsixe rof elggurts eturb eht ni derracs dna tneb nem roopstnasaep nemkrow ymirg sreidlos ybbahs fo sessam taerg ereht . steivos fo ssergnoc eht dna egalbmessa siht neewteb tsartnoc eht naht gnikirts erom eb dluoc gnihton . . . meht wohs llew aiztnegilletni eht ot etatcid ot yrt lliw ikivehslob eseht . stirips hgih ni saw dworc eht . stnemele kivehslobitna eht rehtegot knil dna noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht fo sehcnarb mrof ot seitic laicnivorp ot dehctapsed erew srehto llits yksnerek htiw refnoc dna og ot saw eettimmoc a srehtorb ruoy fo doolb eht dehs ton od sreidlos naissurlartuen niamer ot sreidlos eht edausrep dna skcarrab eht krow ot erew evlewt ro net emos
ehslob eht desoppo snoinu fo noinu eht revewoh 7191 ni ycarcomed yranoitulover eht htiw detca snoinu fo noinu eht 5091 ni . snoinu fo noinu eht noitasinagro lartnec eno rednu detinu erew eseht . cte snaicisyhp sreywal srotcodnem lanoisseforp fo snoinu dehsilbatse slarebil rehto dna vokuilim rosseforp 5091 fo noitulover eht gnirud . snoinu fo noinu era koob siht ni denoitnem seettimmoc lartnec tnatropmi tsom eht . srewop evitartsinimda erom dna erom emussa ot decrof erew seettimmoc lartnec eseht rekaew werg tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht sa . tnemnrevog fo taes eht ta stseretni ralucitrap sti draug ot eettimmoc evitucexe lartnec a ro eettimmoc lartnec a detcele snoitnevnoc eseht fo hcae . cte seitilanoitan sevitarepooc ecivres lavan dna yratilim eht fo hcnarb yreve sedisebseettimmoc teelf dna ymra seettimmoc pohsyrotcaf snoinu edart steivos stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo sessergnoc lanoitan erew ereht . dargortep ta dleh erew noitasinagro fo tros yreve fo snoitnevnoc naissurlla 7191 fo remmus dna gnirps eht ni s
 . tsol eb ylbativeni lliw aissur yranoitulover eisioegruob tsilairepmi eht yb delur eb ot seunitnoc eporue fi esac yna ni taht rewsna i dna . esnepxe ruo ta ecaep a fo taerht eht yb su nethgirf ot seirt voliva ecaep teg ot su pleh nac oknehctseret neve ro veileboks htiw noitilaoc a woh ees tnod i taeper i . detalosi niamer ew fistroffe ecaep ruo fo eruliaf htiw su secanem voliva . . . . raw deralced evah ohw ew tnsi ti dna . raw sselitip fo noitaralced a si taht . . . . gnidnatsrednusim a ton si taht ymene eht ot revo og dereffo si ti mohw ot esoht nehw dnati ekatrewop eht si ereh yas ot semoc ekomsredwop ni dehtaerw llits noitulover fo edit lluf ni ytrap a nehw . sedarmoc on gnidnatsrednusim a no ti emalb ti tup nilerak sa ew tsum ro emalb ot era ohw ew ti si tub . seitrap citarcomed rehto eht htiw tnemeerga na gnilleper fo su esucca yeht . . . . yrotsih fo noitulover cissalc eht niamer lliw noitulover ruo stnasaep eht esoohc ew seettimmoc dnal eht fo tserra eht deredro ohw veitneskva dna stnasaep eht neewt
krow namreg eht ot llac su tel . dargortep tsniaga ymra sih hsup ot stnaw elpoep daed fo snoillim fo doolb eht htiw derevoc resiak namreg eht stnega namreg sa dlrow eht ot nwonk llew os ikivehslob esoht fo nagro ehtrepap emas taht morf egassap a ereh ecudorper ot gnitseretni si ti . ylbmessa tneutitsnoc detcele yltsenoh dna yllufhtiaf a . noitcudorp lairtsudni revo lortnoc srekrow . stnasaep eht otnoitasnepmoc tuohtiwsetatse droldnal . selpoep neewteb ecaep tsenoh na . stnorf lla no ecurt etaidemmi . secnivorp eht ni dna latipac eht ni htobsteivos eht ot rewop lla gniwollof eht setacovda repap siht . . . . steivos eht fo sdnah eht ni eb tsum rewop lluf eht esoprup siht rof dna . . . noitulover eht fo noitelpmoc eht yb devas eb ylno nac elpoep eht . stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow sessalc roop ehtelpoep eht yb dna elpoep eht rof sdnats repap siht . . . . yrtnuoc eht yortsed lliw eh . elpoep eht tsniaga si tnemnrevog yksnerek eht . . . . ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht fo gniteem eht pu kaerb ot ydaer gnitteg ylnepo era
f a seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht tpecxe seitrap tsilaicos rehto eht lla tub eisioegruob desinagro eht ylno ton meht tsniaga . . . . tuo emoc ot gnitiaw skcassoc eht detsurt eb ot rehtegotla ton nosirrag eht gnimoc yksnerek sniart rof slaeppa rieht gnirongi ylinots sdaor sdaorliar noitacinummoc meht gnisufer hpargelet dna tsop srassimmoc rieht yebo ot gnisufer seeyolpme lapicinum dna tnemnrevog . . . . kotsovidalv ot legnahcra morf esidnagaporp deneppah dah tahw secnivorp eht mrofni yksnerek htiw elttab od ot eraperp snamreg eht tuo peek noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht dna amud eht thgif layol nosirrag eht peek ytic eht esinagro tnemnrevog eht revo ekat hcum os od ot dah yeht hcum os . noitatlaxe fo senigne no deeps lluf esoprup dexif rieht nopu evord ohw seye gninrub htiw yhtlif nevahsnu nemkrow dna ssensselpeels fo seigidorp gnivil sevlesmeht fo tuo yllaretil nem . stnanetueil dna sdneirf yb dednuorrus gnola ylsuoixna deirruh yeht sa sredro gnivig gninialpxe gniugra soiloftrop gniglub htiw sredael selfir h
 dna yhcrana fo srorroh eht ot yrtnuoc eht reviled ot snetaerht ikivehslob eht yb nugeb raw livic . derised yltaerg os ecaep fo tnemom eht ylbarusaemmi senoptsop dna ecnefed lanoitan fo esuac eht ot wolb latrom a slaed ikivehslob eht fo noitcerrusni eht . dnalrehtaf eht tsniaga emirc elbabircsedni na si regnad lanretxe tsetaerg sti fo tnemom eht ta aissur yranoitulover fo tnemnrevog eht tsniaga dettimmoc ecneloiv hcus . rewop lagelli na demialcorp dna cilbuper eht fo licnuoc eht desrepsid tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht fo trap detserra yllanimirc dargortep fo ikivehslob eht ht7 rebmevon no sessam yranoitulover eht fo lliw eht ot yrartnoc cilbuper naissur eht fo snezitic eht ot eporue dna aissur revo tsacdaorb gnulf noitulover dna yrtnuoc fo noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht fo laeppa eht tsrif . steivos eht fo sdnah eht ni gnieb snopaew rehto llasserp gnitnirp eht fo elttab eht degar won . live gniysehporp dna gnisruc dna gnimaercssrepapswen erehwyreve derettacs sllibdnah pu detsop snoitamalcorp fo mrots a tahw edis re
feb ztivolinrok eht saw ti . dias eh on ho . ot tnaw ton did vonalkab . yksnerek ot ti nevig dna yenom eht nelots sah eh . nam syksnerek si eh . ylsuomonev draug der eht dias mih tserra stel . ytpme saw tsehc nedoow eht . exa eht gnuws i . ereht sdnif eh tahw nwod etirw dna nepo tsehc eht hsams mih tel . edarmoc nacirema na si ereh . exa na gnirb . vonalkab dias tsehc eht nepo su tel . dias eh tneinevnoc yrev . ylgniwonk dereens draug der eht . syek on evah i . deggurhs lenoloc eht syek . oga syad eerht noissessop koot i nehw ti dnuof i sa tsuj lenoloc eht dias si ti ereht . tsehc eht naem uoy ha yenom yenom . desirprus demees lenoloc eht . yledur deksa eh yenom eht serehw . detpurretni draug der a . ksed eht ot syek eht era ylsuovren lenoloc eht dias ereh . tnadnammoc eht morf eciffo eht revo gnikat yllamrof saw vonalkab aibarasseb ni rehtom ym morf raf os ma i taht terger ylno i . . . . bom eht fo pihsrotatcid eht ekilsid ylevitcnitsni yam ew hcum woh rettam on siht sa raw a hcus ni edis rehtie no thgif ton
ttep eht semit hcus lla ni sa . . . . secneidua naissur dednuotsa dna desuma hcihw sgniteem lepsog fo stnemecnuonna htiw sllaw eht deretsalp yrotsih ni emit tsrif eht rof aissur ot dettimda ymra noitavlas eht dna . stsihposoeht rof nosaes evitca ylralucitrap a saw ti . seihposolihp ysae eht dna erutaretil tra no serutcel raeh ot tnew aiztnegilletni elamef eht fo sedroh . sgnitniap fo snoitibihxe ylkeew erew ereht wocsom ot detaucave neeb dah seirellag erutcip rehto dna egatimreh eht hguohtla . negier srelztinhcs fo noisrev suoutpmus a degats olakrez eyovirk eht . . . . desare lla selgae sti htiw xob lairepmi ytpme eht decaf dna stca eht neewteb yltcerroc pu doots ohw mrofinu sserd sih ni segap fo loohcs lairepmi eht fo tneduts a gniciton rebmemer i ecnamrofrep taht ta dna elbirret eht navi fo htaed syotslot fo noitcudorp sdlohreyem gniviver erew yeht yksnirdnaxela eht ta . gnignis saw nipailahs . reh ees ot gnimoc aissur gnivolecnad lla yksniram eht ta tellab wen a ni deraeppa anivasrak . syadnus gnidulcni th
ra ohw ikivehslob eht si ti dna . tsol si noitulover eht uoy llet i . yltneitapmi tuo tsrub eh dessucsid eb ot noitseuq a ton si ti ikivehslob eht ro nidelakreferp uoy od hcihw . noitulover eht fo seimene yllauqe era ikivehslob eht tub noitulover eht fo ymene eht si nidelak . ikivehslob eht troppus tnow ew tub osla ytic eht dnefed lliw ew . ton esruoc fo meht htiw nioj uoy tnow . ytic eht dnefed ikivehslob eht dna dargortep ot semoc nidelak fi tub . . . . yaw yna ni ikivehslob eht htiw etarepooc tnow ew tub . doolb ruo fo pord tsal eht otti dnefed lliw ew esruoc fo noitulover eht dnefed uoy tnow tub . tsol si noitulover eht . tsol si noitulover eht . su tsniaga noituloverretnuoc eht desiar evah yeht . enod evah ikivehslob eseht tahw ees uoy won . sey . noitcafsitas rettib fo tros a htiw sdnah sih debbur dna deddon eh . htron gnihcram saw nidelak taht eurt erew ti fi deksa i emmargorp yranoitulover tsilaicos eht nelots evah sreprusu eseht tahtkcirt a lla si ti taht esilaer yletaidemmi lliw stnasaep eht taht ee
 dna sgniteem naissur erudecorp yratnemailrap . stsihcrana tnasaep fo puorg tnacifingisni na won . emmargorp tsilaicos mumixam eht fo noitacilppa etaidemmi eht gnidnamed tnemevom tnasaep lufrewop a saw ti nehw 5091 fo noitulover eht ni ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo toohsffo na . stsilamixam . b . veyagalak vokmak nilerak avonodirips sredael eht gnoma . sevlesmeht stnasaep eht yb noitisopsid rieht dna setatse dednal taerg eht fo noitasnepmoc tuohtiw noitacsifnoc rof gnidnats tnemnrevog teivos eht gnitroppus ytrap tnasaep taerg eht emaceb hcihw ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht denioj yeht srebmun gnisaercni ni seriasse eht fo sknar eht tfel stnasaep eht sa . denruter syawla tub semit lareves tnemnrevog eht morf werdhtiw yeht . erutlucirga fo taht yllaicepse soiloftrop tenibac eht gnirahs tnemnrevog teivos eht ni deniamer seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht revewoh . scitcat kivehslob sselhtur eht wollof ot tnatculer erew tsrif ta ssalcgnikrow eht fo pihsrotatcid fo emmargorp kivehslob eht gnirahs yl
deraor erauqs gnihtees eht lla . . . . raw livic elbirret si ereht ydaerla erehw wocsom ot uoy ekat tonnac ew . edis rehtie rof spoort yrrac ton od ew . lartuen era ew . wocsom ot uoy yrrac tonnac ew sedarmoc . meht htiw gnidaelp saw lehzkiv eht fo rebmem a spets eht no gnidnats . selfir htiw gniltsirb ereht dessam erew srolias dnasuoht lareves . noitats yawliar ialocin eht fo tnorf ni dworc lausunu na tuo edam ew erauqs yksnemanz ssorca emoh gnivird . . . . rassimmoc selpoep ykztort . l licnuoc eht fo eman eht ni aissur tsilaicos ralupop yranoitulover evil gnol elpoep eht ot lufhtiaf erew ohw sreciffo eht dna sreidlos eht noitulover eht fo sroirraw eht ot yrolg llef ohw esoht ot yromem lanrete . nedlaw lenoloc fo dnammoc eht rednu gnitca tnemhcated ovoklup rieht fo duorp eb nac rewop teivos eht dna aissur yranoitulover . niatrec si yrotciv dna raelc si daor eht tub . secifircas dna selcatsbo selggurts era su erofeb . tsap eht ot nruter on si ereht . noitulover sstnasaep dna srekrow eht fo esuac eht denehtgne
f a tog ew tub . enog erew meht fo tsom emit taht yb dna ffats eht ot kcab tog ew nehw kcolco evif saw ti . raw saw ti taht was yllanif yeht erofeb ruoh na rof deklat ew sseug i dna ynloms ot yaw eht lla nar ew llew . esle ydobyna tserra ton dna og ydobyreve tel ot redro eht emac kcab noos ytterp dna od ot tahw wonk tndid yeht ydaer tnsaw eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht tub . yawa thgir ynloms ot pu tnes ew mohw sretsinim fo elpuoc a dna sreciffo emos dah ew ruoh na ni . ti od ot nageb ew os . syas eh gniog dna gnimoc ydobyreve tserra . od ot tahw deksa dna mih dlot ew os ereht saw eettimmoc latnemiger eht fo yraterces eht . gninrom eht ni owt tsapflah saw ti . draeh dah eh tahw em dlot hctivolvap navi . ereht erew sretsinim eht lla dna gnimoc tpek sreciffo fo lluf selibomotua . no gniog saw gnihtemos taht suoicipsus ydaerla saw i . dluoc eh tahw pu kcip ot edarmoc rehto eht gnivaelmoordraug eht ot nwod emac dna tuo deppils eh os gniog dna gnimoc fo laed doog a saw ereht etunim taht . regnol yna ti dnats
nihcram srolias fo dauqs a was ew tuo selim evif tuoba . . . . srettam hcus dna lanac amanap eht fo noitasilanoitanretni eht tuoba em ot dewolleb hctiveialocin rimidalv elihw no ylsuoirepmi derednuht ew dna sdraug der erew ydobyna rof pots tnod ew . sdraug der eht deirc uoy ekat lived eht . noitnetta on diap ew . snug rieht pu werht dna ioths detuohs su erofeb daor eht otni tuo nar sreidlos . su pots ot deirt lortap a yllanoisacco . sbmob gnimorac eht dima decnad dna rehto hcae ot no dleh ew elihw kcurt eht fo gniraor eht evoba tuohs a ni dereviled lla rewsna ot tluciffid yrev rehto dna ocsicnarf nas ot namkreb etidartxe yeht lliw won esac yenoom eht ni noitautis eht si tahw stsilatipac eht revo worht ot ydaer srekrow nacirema eht era raw eht otni emoc acirema did yhw . acirema tuoba snoitseuq htiw em deilp hctiveialocin rimidalv saw eman esohw draug der gib eht . hsarc a htiw rac eht fo sedis eht tsniaga pu gnihctef teef ruo revo htrof dna kcab gnillor tnew sbmob tiburg eht dna rehto eht ot leehw eno morf de
dur euqalc eht ereh gniltsihw si ohw . detuohs yeht gniteem ruo pu gnikaerb si ohw . hguorht yaw rieht gnicrof nem deworbkcalb taerg su nopu nwod gniraeb ehcnalava na ekil evom ot nageb ti neht . deraor dna dehtees ecalp elohw eht rotiart eht htiw nwod pu tuhs mih htiw nwod vonujnahk tnaw ew vonujnahk gnituohs lufraef a pu tpek em raen euqalc eht . mrofinu sih no aingisni tuohtiw dedaeherab erugif deggeltrohs tauqs a gnilims dnuora dekool dna spih sih no sdnah sih tup rotaidar eht no tuo deklaw neht dna tnemom a rof doots eh gnisir . evoba dna woleb morf dellup dna dehsup dniheb dna erofeb sdnah yb depleh rac eht fo edis eht pu derebmalc sriaffa yratilim rof rassimmoc selpoep eht hcihw fo tsdim eht ni mih htiw nwod daeha og daeha og yblod misorp misorp fo slley sgniltsihw sreehc fo tsrubtuo na . su ot kaeps ot stnaw dna ereh si oknelyrk edarmoc deirc eh sedarmoc . dnah sih pu dleh dna esool flesmih dehcnerw sreciffo eht fo eno yb kcab dleh reidlos a . derrits dna dessot ssam taerg eht lla dna rettam eht saw t
nacirema . pac sih devomer eh sa daeh hsidlab a htiw nam yffup trohs a saw eh . srengierof era uoy taht sgnitniap eht erimda uoy yaw eht yb ees i hcnerf tneulf tub kciht ni dias eciov a dna rae tfel ym fo noiger eht morf em deliassa htaerb cilohocla na serutcip eht ta gnikool erew ew sa . sesserttam eht neewteb dekcats selfir slliswodniw no detnuom erew snug enihcam . sllaw dna roolf eht fo kool eht morf skeew rof neeb dah yltnedive dna kcarrab eguh a lla saw ecalp eht . renroc dnah thgir reppu eht ssorca hsag a dah eno . . . . 3181 tsugua 8261 dna 2181 rebmevon 6 dna 2181 rebotco 21 . . . . senecselttab lacirotsihsemarf tlig evissam ni sesavnac eguh htiw derevoc erew sllaw eht . erauqs eht no swodniw ytrid dna gnol rieht gnitnorf snolasetats taerg fo seires a otni tuo emac ew tsal ta litnu moor retfa moor hguorht tsap dehcram ew sa tnemhsinotsa htiw su ta dekool yeht . ecalap eht fo srallec eht morf dehclif yltnedive ydnugrub etihw fo elttob a dah eno . ytinamuh dehsawnu dna ekomsoccabot fo erehpsomta elats 
etaidemmi . taht dna yaw siht gniuls snug sti yksvoliahkim eht fo renroc eht dnuora deraeppa elibomotua deruomra na ylneddus dekool ew sa . su ot pu detaolf seciov esohw fo ruomalc eht gnorht deticxe na yb dednuorrus bac a otni detfil gnieb reh ees dluoc ew . mra eht ni lrig gnuoy a gnidnuow ti otni tohs dah dworc eht fo stnuat eht yb detarepsaxe yllanif draug der a . swodniw eht ot nar ew . tohs a saw ereht edistuo . . . . etarepooc ton llahs ew . . . . tnetopmi yletulosba era yehtwon meht evah ew tub . tnemnrevog wen a mrof ot su gnitivni setageled tnes sah ynloms ydaerla . . . . evisneffo eht ot ssap llahs ew worromot retfa yad . . . . gnimmoc si yksnerek sgniht hcus fo klat ew dluohs yhwnetsil tub . emalb ot era ohw ikivehslob eht si ti dna . tsol si noitulover eht uoy llet i . yltneitapmi tuo tsrub eh dessucsid eb ot noitseuq a ton si ti ikivehslob eht ro nidelakreferp uoy od hcihw . noitulover eht fo seimene yllauqe era ikivehslob eht tub noitulover eht fo ymene eht si nidelak . ikivehslob eht troppus t
l eht . sdoow eht ni tnelis saw ti . skcab ruo ta elbissop sa ylraen sa demia ti litnu dnuora ti dewels dna nonnac eht dehcated elihwnaem sedarmoc owt . tserof eht otni ylihtlaets tnew elfir sih gniyrrac nam yreve dna tuo daerps ew gnidnecsed . morf emoc dah gnirif eht erehw ecalp eht etisoppo ylraen saw kcurt eht litnu srepsihw ni gnikaeps gnola tperc ew won deticxe hcum yrev . dedoow ylivaeh saw daor eht fo edis eht ereh gnola . noisseccus dipar ni stohs eerht tfel eht ot dna daeha elttil a neht dna ecnelis daed tnemom a rof ti raeh uoy od . dias eh gnirif . pots ot rueffuahc eht ot detuohs dna rae sih dekcoc hctiveialocin rimidalv taht rehtruf elim a tuoba neeb evah tsum ti . dedeecorp ew dna kcurt eht otni debmilc yeht . ti dnif tndluoc ew tub deklaw dna deklaw dna deklaw ew . won erehwyna tnsi gniht nmad eht tub . daor eht nwod retemolik a flah tuoba saw ti dias eh gninrom siht . daeh sih dehctarcs dna detlah rolias tsomerof eht srehtorb tnorf eht serehw . nwod dewols dna kcab gnihcram srolias fo dauqs a
 spmac lla tsomla fo slautcelletni stneduts stsilanruoj htiw revaniv keels ykstahs ylio ekil stedac htiw sredluohs debbursvonrehct sveilebokssretsinim tsilaicos remrof ehtsrebeil snad sveitneskvasredael yranoitulover laicos dna kivehsnem eht ereh ecnetsixe rof elggurts eturb eht ni derracs dna tneb nem roopstnasaep nemkrow ymirg sreidlos ybbahs fo sessam taerg ereht . steivos fo ssergnoc eht dna egalbmessa siht neewteb tsartnoc eht naht gnikirts erom eb dluoc gnihton . . . meht wohs llew aiztnegilletni eht ot etatcid ot yrt lliw ikivehslob eseht . stirips hgih ni saw dworc eht . stnemele kivehslobitna eht rehtegot knil dna noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht fo sehcnarb mrof ot seitic laicnivorp ot dehctapsed erew srehto llits yksnerek htiw refnoc dna og ot saw eettimmoc a srehtorb ruoy fo doolb eht dehs ton od sreidlos naissurlartuen niamer ot sreidlos eht edausrep dna skcarrab eht krow ot erew evlewt ro net emos sknab eht tisiv ot saw rehtona seirtsinim eht fo dnuor eht ekam ot saw osdnaos stnemngissa dna seman fo 
putsyv a noitartsnomed demra na eb dluow ereht taht ytic eht hguorht nar sruomur od ikivehslob eht dluow tahw . . . ekat thgim sreidlos dna srekrow eht noitca revetahw tesffo dna ht31 rebmeced teem ot ssergnoc stnasaep a rof llac ycnegreme na deussi steivos stnasaep eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe eht emit emas eht ta . elbissop sa setageled tsilaicos etaredom ynam sa tcele ot snoitasinagro laicnivorp rieht ot yllacitnarf eriw ot nageb dna scitcat rieht degnahc ylneddus detaefed erew yeht taht gnisilaer seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht dna desuora won saw yrtnuoc elohw eht tub . ht7 eht ot denoptsop saw ssergnoc eht fo gninepo eht os 2 rebmevon yb rehtegot emoc ton dluow murouq a taht tnedive saw ti . . . . gnimoc era syad taerg . . . . seil eseht ot noitnetta on yap . . . . dargortep evael retteb dah setageled taht dna ecalp ekat ton lliw ti taht gnitressa yb ssergnoc eht pu kaerb ot eettimmoc gnisinagro eht fo srebmem niatrec fo stpmetta ot dellac si ssergnoc naissurlla wen eht ot setageled fo noitne
caf lacitilop wen a demrof dna ffo tilps seiranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo gniw tfel eht nehw rebotco ni ylraelc flesti dewohs ti . gnimrof saw gniw yranoitulover a stnasaep eht gnoma neve tub . . . . stnasaep eht gnoma detatiga dah hcihw ytrap eht noitareneg a rof neeb dah ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht dna ylwols depoleved ssensuoicsnoc lacitilop stcirtsid larur hsigguls eht ni esuaceb evitavresnoc llits deniamer steivos stnasaep eht . srolias dna sreidlos eht fo sknar eht dna sehcnarb noinu eht ni yrtnuoc eht revo lla steivos lacol eht ni gninniw erew ikivehslob eht eno yb eno elihwnaem . etacidba dluow steivos eht detnih yeht emit hcihw ta yawa shtnom owt ylno saw ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht taht dnuorg eht no gniteem eht llac . snoitanalpxe dna seton ees ton dluow hakeeyast eht tub rebmetpes ni dellac neeb evah dluohs ssergnoc naissurlla eht seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo steivos eht fo noitutitsnoc eht ot gnidrocca suht . snoitcele wen yna detneverp ro deyaled yeht dna gniwollof suomrone na dah seirano
tsilupop . 3 . volavonok vozonail puorg eht fo lacipyt . noitasinagro cimonocenopaew nwo rieht yb thguof eb tsum steivos eht taht esilaer ot hguone tnegilletni erew ohw srerutcafunam dna stnahcrem sreknab nredom erom eht fo desopmoc saw ti . nigluhs dna oknaizdor ekil nem erew sredael lautcelletni sti hguohtla nasitrapnon flesti deralced puorg eht . tenibac yksnerek tsal eht ni soiloftrop nevig erew nem cilbup fo puorg eht morf setageled . wocsom ni demrof saw nem cilbup fo puorg eht noituloverretnuoc volinrok eht htiw snoitaler rieht hguorht ralupopnu emoceb dah stedac eht retfa . nem cilbup fo puorg . a2 . ykstahs revaniv vokuilim era koob siht ni sevitatneserper sti . evitavresnoc erom dna erom werg stedac eht noitulover cimonoce laicos a erom dna erom emaceb noitulover eht sa . tnemnrevog srast eht fo smia citsilairepmi eht gnidulcni smia citsilairepmi deilla fo ruovaf ni flesti deralced ti esuaceb lirpa ni nworhtrevo saw yrtsinim tedac eht . tnemnrevog lanoisivorp tsrif eht demrof stedac eht 7191 hcram n
fo eno ot enredom euqric eht ot revir eht ssorca tnew i ecaep ecaep gniyrc snoitageled fo sderdnuh nopu sderdnuh rieht latipac eht otni gniruop gnisir aes eht ekil derrits seimra saissur ni nem fo snoillim eht tnorf fo selim dnasuoht a gnola meht del evah seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht fo scitcat gnisimorpmoc eht erehw ees deirc ikivehslob eht dna tnalibuj saw sserp naissur evitavresnoc eht siht ta . . . . ti gnitcudnoc fo sdohtem eht ylno tub lla ta raw eht fo smia eht ssucsid ton lliw ecnerefnoc sirap eht wonk i sa raf sa yldloc dednopser noitseuq a ot rewsna ni snommoc fo esuoh hsitirb eht ni wal ranob yllanif dna detsetorp srodassabma deilla eht zakan sih dna veileboks ot detcejbo tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . snoitcurtsni 5 . tces ii . ppa ees zakan suomaf eht otsefinam a pu werd dna meht rof kaeps ot veileboks esohc steivos eht . sriaffa ngierof fo retsinim oknehctseret dna nam yratilim yranoitcaer veyexela larenegsevitatneserper owt detseggus tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht . ht01 rebmevon rof 
dna sessalc gninrevog namreg eht fo tub tairatelorp namreg eht fo dia eht ot emoc ton od noitcerrusni eht fo sresinagro eht . . . . . . . yksnerek tnediserpretsinim eht eisioegruob eht ot flesmih dlos sah ohw nam a dna reprusu a ytrap siht fo seye eht ni si hcihw fo daeh eht ta tnemnrevog lanoisivorp a yb deretsinimda aissur ni won niatbo ytrap lacitilop a fo noitca eerf eht rof snoitidnoc tcefrep tsom eht taht ylticilpmi suht esingocer noilleber fo sresinagro eht deunitnoc neht yksnerek . . . snoitasinagro yranoitcerrusni dna stsinoitulover namreg eht troppus ot esufer ew nac dlrow eritne eht fo snairatelorp lanoitanretni decalptseb eht ew steivos eht fo ytirojam eht gniteem fo modeerf srepapswen fo snezod gnivah ew elihw tca ot yrt sedarmoc namreg eht tey dnayteicos fo sessalc lla fo ytilitsoh elbidercni eht yb desoppo era yeht . . . . teivos a tuohtiw gniteem fo modeerf tuohtiw srepapswen tuohtiw thcenkbeil eno ylno evah sedarmoc namreg eht . . . ti fo kniht . elcitra sninel morf noitatouq gniwollof eht da
sti fo noisserpxe esicerp dna raelc yratnulov eht tuohtiw ytilanoitan kaew ro llams a fo etats gnorts dna taerg a ot noinu llaralucitrap ni ssalcgnikrow eht fo sthgir eht dna lareneg ni sthgir citarcomed fo noitpecnoc eht ot ylbamrofnocsnaem tnemnrevog eht yrotirret ngierof fo tseuqnoc ro noitaxenna yb . seitilanoitan lla fo dna seirtnuoc lla fo elpoep eht fo seilbmessa desirohtua eht yb ecaep a hcus fo snoitidnoc eht lla fo noitacifitar evitinifed eht erofeb yaled tsethgils eht tuohtiw ecno ta ecaep a hcus ta gnimia snoitaitogen fo spets evisiced eht nopu retne ot gnilliw sevlesmeht gniwohs yb ecaep a hcus edulcnoc ot yletaidemmi selpoep tneregilleb eht lla ot sesoporp aissur fo tnemnrevog eht . seitinmedni tuohtiw dna seitilanoitan rehto fo noitaxenna elbicrof tuohtiw yrotirret ngierof fo tseuqnoc tuohtiw yas ot si taht snoitaxenna tuohtiw ecaep etaidemmiyllacirogetac dnamed ot desaec ton evah yhcranom tsirast eht nwod kcurts gnivah retfa stnasaep dna srekrow naissur eht hcihw ecaep tahtraw eht yb detelped 
fo snordauqs dna oot sniffoc rieht htiw sreidlos fo seinapmoc emac srekrowyrotcaf eht neewteb . . . . sbos htiw dekohc ylesraoh gnas sredarap eht derevocnu gnidnats elpoep fo ssam eht fo gnignis esnemmi eht tsniaga dna hcram larenuf yranoitulover eht gniyalp saw dnab eht . srettel etihw htiw kcalb sgalf tsihcrana emos dnapot eht morf gnignah eperc fo stonk gnirettel dlog dna revlis htiw der fo sedahs lla srennab fo maerts sseldne na gniwolf saw etag eht hguorht won . su drawot devom ylwols noissecorp eht niaga desolc dna denepo taht enal ralugerri na hguorht . . . . srewolf laicifitra suoedih fo shtaerw ynam erew ereht . pot eht no delian tah sreidlos a dah ro htolc derevlis ro dedlig htiw derevoc erew srehto meht dniheb deirrac dil eht nepo erew sniffoc eht fo emos . secaf daed etihw htiw ylffits deklaw ro demaercs dna debbos ohw nemow yb dewollof dna secaf rieht nwod gnimaerts sraet htiw dehcram ohw nem hguor fo sredluohs eht no hgih enrob nosmirc htiw debuad dna doow denalpnu fo edam sexob edur erew eseht 
revo lla dna dnal desimorp rieht rof gnitiaw fo derit era ohw stnasaep fo stlover sees eno noitulover eht gnirud won . seitrap istnorobo eht htiw noitilaoc suoititcif a yb deksam si lortnoc siht tub lortnoc ni si eisioegruob eht . sselrewop yletulosba si tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht ereh evig i sdrow nwo sih ni klat sih fo ecnatsbus eht . ruoh na naht erom rof ylidaets dna yldipar deklat eh yrassecen erew em morf snoitseuq wef . elbat erab a ta riahc hguor a no tas eh moor eht fo elddim eht ni . ykztort htiw klat ot ynloms fo citta eht ni moor erab llams a ot pu tnew i tnemtnioppa yb ht03 rebotco no . . . . steivos eht ot elbisnopser yltcerid eb lliw dna sretsinim yb fo daetsniseettimmocaigelloc yb dedaeh eb lliw seirtsinim suoirav eht tnemailrap eht eb lliw steivos fo ssergnoc naissurlla eht fo sgniteem tneuqerf ot elbisnopser hakeeyast wen eht . ytrap ruobal citarcomed laicos naissur eht fo noitutitsnoc eht no delledom eb lliw tnemnrevog eht fo mrof eht . . . . woleb morf emoc llahs yteicos wen eht fo evitait
f rieht sa tuo dehctarcs erew eseht fo tsom . sotsefinam dna snoitamalcorp fo stfard hguor noitca fo snalp fo sgninnigeb htiw revo delbbircs erew srepap eht repap dna kni dna nep saw taes ytpme hcae erofeb . tserra rednu ti tfel dah yeht sa tsuj saw eziab neerg htiw derevoc elbat gnol eht . sdraug der eht ot meht deyarteb dah iraztievhs eht erehw dna thgin dna yad taht lla noisses ni neeb dah sretsinim eht erehw sgnignah edacorb nosmirc htiw rebmahc etihcalam dna dlog eht ot htgnel ta detartenep ew neddibrof si ti nirab ereht ni og tnac uoy gnitaeper tibah fo ecrof morf tuoba ylsuovren doots smrofinu dlog dna der dna eulb rieht ni stnavres ecalap dlo eht . . . . htiw stoob ekam ot saw ti denialpxe yeht . sriahc morf yretslohpu rehtael hsinaps etarobale eht gnippir sreidlos owt nopu emac ew derots saw erutinruf erehw moor a ni . dedeen elpoep gnikrow eht hcihw gnihtolc saw tool dezirp ylhgih tsom eht . nepo dehcnerw sebordraw dna sgnirevoc rieht fo deppirts neeb dah sdeb smoor gnivil eht ni dna roolf eht revo 
over tsilaicos ew . elbat muidiserp eht no tsif sih htiw dednuop dna mroftalp eht detnuom egar htiw desluvnoc ecaf dedraeb sih tnasaep gib a . noitpurretni citamard a derrucco won . ecalap retniw eht fo rassimmoc detnioppa neeb dah yksvonduhct taht decnuonna saw ti . . . . htrof tsrub sreehc seirc yrgna stooh fo mrots a yksnihctlap fo noitnem eht ta dna ssel rof ni emac grubnetur rethgual noitcafsitas fo stuohs esualppa suorednuht htiw deteerg saw oknehctseret fo eman eht . sretsinim detserra fo tsil eht gnidaer saw veinemak ni emac ew sa . aes eht ekil gniraor elpoep htiw dedworc saw sgniteem fo llah eht setageled gnideces eht fo etips ni . meht ediseb snug rieht roolf eht no gnipeels yal elpoep smooreettimmoc eht fo emos ni . ytrid dna deyewolloh nem gniyrruh fo lluf erew srodirroc eht . swen tsetal eht ydobyreve gniksa ylregae esolc deldduh seirtnes eht serif gnipaelllits eht dnuora dna tnew dna emac srotom ezalba llits erew ynloms fo swodniw eht . yawa skcolb owt deppots dna selbur ytriht detnaw eh dnasu 
ni sioegruob gnoma gniht lausu eht saw ti . noelopan naissur a rof hgis ot nageb srepapswen niatrec . rorepme eht gnitlusni rof srotca eht hcnyl ot denetaerht ohw stsihcranom fo puorg a yb detpurretni saw rast eht fo snis dellac euqselrub a elpmaxe rof dargortep ni ertaeht ecraf ykstiort eht ta 5 . tces i . ppa ees. ecnedifnoc gniniag erew noitcaer fo secrof eht taht erehwyreve sngis erew ereht emit emas eht ta . seiranoitulover tsilaicos tfel eht noitcaf lacitilop wen a demrof dna ffo tilps seiranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo gniw tfel eht nehw rebotco ni ylraelc flesti dewohs ti . gnimrof saw gniw yranoitulover a stnasaep eht gnoma neve tub . . . . stnasaep eht gnoma detatiga dah hcihw ytrap eht noitareneg a rof neeb dah ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht dna ylwols depoleved ssensuoicsnoc lacitilop stcirtsid larur hsigguls eht ni esuaceb evitavresnoc llits deniamer steivos stnasaep eht . srolias dna sreidlos eht fo sknar eht dna sehcnarb noinu eht ni yrtnuoc eht revo lla steivos lacol eht ni gninniw erew ikive
s sih deggurhs eh deneppah yllaer dah noitcerrusni eht fi mih deksa i nehw . ytrap sih fo noitces yratilim eht fo yraterces ztenorobo kivehsnem grebmog niatpac otni nar i ayaksrom eht fo renroc eht no 1 . tces vi . ppa ees . sdraug der dna sreknuy sreidlos fo slortap gnihsalc neewteb sehsimriks stserraretnuoc stserra reyem aitilim ytic eht fo feihc fo gnitoohs sretsinim eht fo emos fo tserra dedicednu skcassoc eht dargortep hcaer ot elbanu sreknuy fohretep eht ycnega hpargelet eht noitats citlab eht egnahcxe enohpelet eht fo erutpac ikivehslob . thgin detatiga eht fo swen yratnemgarf deniatnoc neid . . . raw lacisnesnon siht fo dne eht neht yrgnuh eht ot derussa si daerb neht srekrow eht ot derussa si yrtsudni fo lortnoc neht stnasaep eht ot derussa si dnal eht neht . ecaep tsuj a fo lasoporp etaidemmi stsilatipac eht fo kcehc etaidemmi ynnaryt droldnal fo noitiloba etelpmoc a naem lliw ti esac taht ni dna stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow yranoitulover eht fo sdnah eht ot derrefsnart eb lliw rewop ehtro . . . . 
ffo lla . . . . tcirtsid yratilim eht fo ffats eht morf sredro rehtruf litnu skcarrab rieht ni niamer ot stnemhcated dna stinu yratilim lla redro i zakirp retfa zakirp dettime vokinvoklop . mlac niamer ot elpoep eht ot slaeppa laciretsyh sllaw eht lla no erehwyreve . sriaffa ngierof fo yrtsinim eht ni saw eciffo esohw rosnec eht htiw ssenisub dah i ht6 eht fo gninrom eht no . . . . ni nar dna redluohs eht no em deppals eh yltnatluxe seciffo repapswen sioegruob eht ezies ot stnemhcated gnidnes erew won dna slaes tnemnrevog eht dehsams dna nwod tnew spoort ruo tub . tup ihctobar dna tadlos srepap ruo nwod esolc ot sreknuy eht tnes yksnerek ffo erew deirc . tnemevom robal nacirema eht ni nwonk llew eh llew . spets eht pu gnidnuob emac votahs llib . srenrocteerts ybraen eht dna setag eht dedraug sreidlos fo slortap gnorts taht dna rood eht fo edis hcae no eno detnuom neeb dah snug gnirifdipar owt taht deciton i gninrom eht ni kcolco eerht ta ynloms tfel i sa . . . . eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht otni sevit
ssurlla na dednamed sah hcnarb ruo . . . . ksnim ta meht detserra ew tub akvats eht ot noissim a dnes ot deirt yeht . emag svolinevargrok gniyalp era eettimmoc lartnec eht ni istnoroboeht . elbat eht no gnidnuop deirc eh steivos eht ot rewop lla . sredael rieht fo noitca eht gninmednoc sgniteemssam eguh gnidloh erew nem eht taht dias ohw enil ialocin eht fo srekrow yawliar eht fo etageled a ot em decudortni yksvozol sretrauqdaeh noinu edart ni . noitca ni ytinamuh elbitsuahxeni fo ytilativ sseldnuob eht htiw dellirht ynloms . . . . ycarcomed eht lla fo ecnedifnoc eht no desab tnemnrevog a . . . fo ytirohtua yb tca ton seod hcihw ytrap yna ot secivres ruo dnel ot esufer ew . . . rewop eht gnidloh fo elbapacni flesti nwohs sah ti tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht rof sa syawliar eht ekil ssenisub detacilpmoc a gnildnah fo elbapacni era sdraug der . . . nemyawliar fo noinu eht ew tubyksnerek fo spoort eht ron noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht ron ikivehslob eht rehtien eb lliw eseht yrtnuoc ruo fo kcerw eht fo sruoivas eht s
tsrif erew sdraug der eht . aissur fo srekrow yrotcaf demra eht . sdraug der snoitasinagro rehto . eman sti fo slaitini eht morf dellac os . noinu srekrow yawliar eht fo eettimmoc lartnec naissurlla . lehzkiv . eettimmoc teelf lartnec ehtteelfertnec . tolfortnest . eman sti fo slaitini eht morf dellac os . seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo steivos eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe lartnec naissurlla . hakeeyast . steivos eht fo ytirohtua eht tsniaga ekirts no tnew ohw seeyolpme tnemnrevog eht detinu dna gnisirpu kivehslob eht desoppo snoinu fo noinu eht revewoh 7191 ni ycarcomed yranoitulover eht htiw detca snoinu fo noinu eht 5091 ni . snoinu fo noinu eht noitasinagro lartnec eno rednu detinu erew eseht . cte snaicisyhp sreywal srotcodnem lanoisseforp fo snoinu dehsilbatse slarebil rehto dna vokuilim rosseforp 5091 fo noitulover eht gnirud . snoinu fo noinu era koob siht ni denoitnem seettimmoc lartnec tnatropmi tsom eht . srewop evitartsinimda erom dna erom emussa ot decrof erew seettimmoc lartnec eseht rekaew werg
reht ekil smees ti . detacude llew ton mi neht tubelpmis yltcefrep smees ti em ot . sessecorp lautcelletni sih fo niap eht htiw gnicamirg dias eh lla ta ti rof tnuocca tnac i . daeh sih dehctarcs reidlos eht taht rof tnuocca uoy od woh won . noitulover eerf ruo aissur ruo gniyortsed era ohw ikivehslob eht ot desoppo ma i dna . noitcivnoc htiw tneduts eht dias ma i . oreh taerg a ylbaborp era uoy . nam detacude na ton ma i neht tub . ytilimuh htiw reidlos eht derewsna did reven i yas ot yrros mi em fo raeh reve uoy tndid . niynap hctivegroeg ilisav si eman ym rast eht evas dog gnignis dna stsinoitulover nwod gnitoohs llits erew uoy nehw ytivitca yranoitulover rof grublesslhcs ni sraey owt tneps i dneirf ym yhw loof a era uoy tairatelorp eht dna eisioegruob eht sessalc owt era ereht won . em ekil nem elpmis eht lla dna raeh ot tnaw i tahw si syas eh tahw taht em ot smees ti tub ylnrobbuts reidlos eht derewsna taht tuoba hcum wonk tnod i llew snamreg eht morf yenom koot ninel taht wonk uoy od rac desolc a ni yna
arrawnu dna sesuoh ni sehcraes detnarrawnu gnitneverp ni srassimmoc eht ot ecnatsissa droffa ot . 5 . dnah ta secrof demra lla htiw trats sti ta toir ro noitartsnomed demra yna sserppus ot . 4 . ytic eht fo rednammoc dnoces eht fo sretrauqdaeh eht ot yreviled rieht dna sercassam dna snoitartsnomed demra ot gniticni dna skcarrab gniretne snosrep lla fo tserra eht . 3 . sretresed dna slanimirc fo tserra eht rof serusaem fo gnikat eht dna aitilim ytic eht fo sevitatneserper eht dna rednammoc tcirtsid eht htiw noitarepooc ni slortap fo noitasinagro eht . 2 . snoitutitsni tnemnrevog fo gnidraug eht ni aitilim eht ot dna srassimmoc eht ot ytilapicinum eht ot ecnatsissa yreve droffa ot nosirrag sti fo yrotirret eht nihtiw dna snoitcurtsni laiceps htiw ecnadrocca ni tinu yratilim yreve . 1 dnammoc i yrtnuoc ym erofeb ytud ym dna ytilibisnopser ym fo ssensuoicsnoc lluf ni . snoitutitsni lapicinum eht dna tnemnrevog eht fo krow citametsys eht srednih dna snezitic eht fo efil eht gnisinagrosid si sgniht fo etats siht . 
itasinagro ytinu eht sesisahpme ylralucitrap nosirrag dna tairatelorp dargortep eht fo noitulover suoirotciv eht gnitulas seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo teivos dargortep eht dessap tsuj noituloser eht fo ypoc a hcnerf dipar ni daer eh ecaferp tuohtiw . sredluohs sih ot esolc tes ecaf suoicaviv ediw a htiw nam elttil gnivom kciuq aveinemak deppots i . revo saw teivos dargortep eht fo gniteem yranidroartxe eht . smra rieht rednu soiloftrop gniglub dna secaf suoixna dessarah htiw ecno ta gniklat lla puorg a fo ertnec eht ni gnola gniyrruhveinemak yksrahctanulos ro redael a talf dehcnip ikpahs ruf yerg dna staoc deruoloctrid hguor ni sreidlos sredluohs rieht revo gnuls snug htiw meht fo ynam stah ruf kcalb dnuor dna sesuolb kcalb ni srekrow esacriats eht nwod gniruop emac dworc a . ssensselkcer fo erehpsomta na saw ereht . . . . gnituohs gnillac teef fo rednuht eht htiw deraor sllah detanimulliylmid erab gnol eht . gniog senigne draytruoc eht ni seert eht rednu doots srac deruomra fo dreh nud a . sehceerb rieht
c eht ni . selbur dnasuoht ytnewt fo sekats dna gniwolf engapmahc htiw nwad ot ksud morf yllacitceh denoitcnuf sbulc gnilbmag . . . . teivos dargortep eht fo snoisses suoiraorpu eht ot dedworc elpoep dnasuoht a llah taerg eht ni sriatspu . moor dnif dluoc yeht reverehw roolf eht no tpels nemkrow dna sreidlos fo sderdnuh thgin lla dna yad lla demmuh dna dezzub smooreettimmoc eht . ssap sydobyreve gnidnamed setag retuo eht dna rood eht ta sdraug tcirts erew ereht ynloms ta . . . . ylsuoiruxul devil srebmem teivos eht devrats elpoep eht elihw taht dnaylppus doof eht derenroc dah swej eht taht gnirepsihw klim dna daerb rof sruoh dloc gnol eueuq ni detiaw ohw nemow gnirevihs eht dnuora detalucric slaudividni suoiretsym . . . . gnilaets thguac reidlos a htaed ot elpmart dna taeb elpoep derdnuh lareves fo dworc a was i noonretfa eno ayavodas eht no . . . . steerts edis nwod klaw ot suoregnad saw ti taht tnetxe na hcus ot desaercni spudloh . . . . srepapswen eht rof gnithgif yksven eht nwod dna pu sedit elbulov wols 
 ninel . . . . laer msilatnemitnes fo suoutpmetnoc salumrof fo tneitapmi gnorts hguoremoc dah ti tub ti derised aiztnegilletni eht sa ron emoc dluow ti detcepxe yeht sa emoc ton dah ti . senim nairebis ni elixe ni snosirp eht ni deid dah sdnasuoht fo snet dna sdnasuoht siht rof dleif sram no evarg doohrehtorb dloc rieht ni hcram fo srytram eht ereht eil yeht did siht rof . . . . ssenippah selpoep eht dna modeerf rof krow ot thgif ot raews ew evarg ruoy ta htap elbon a esohc uoy srehtorb lleweraf . . . . reffus ot dna eid ot ydaer ymra hserf dna wen eht yb dewollof era uoy htap elbon a esohc uoy srehtorb lleweraf eerf dna taerg esir lliw elpoep eht sllaf ynnaryt nehw raen si emit taht tnuoc lliw efil derednerrus ruoy nehw emoc lliw emit eht . . . . drows eht naht regnorts si ecitsuj taht deveileb uoy esuaceb srehtorb gnireffus ruoy erongi ton dluoc uoy esuaceb sniahc ruoy deirrac uoy drow a tuohtiw . . . . sniahc ni elixe ot tnew uoy snosirp elbirroh ni dereffus uoy uoy ot raed gnihtyreve dna sevil ruoy pu eva
dna etilop htiw . . . . derit yllarutan era yeht dna noitulover ruo ees ot stsrev dnasuoht ytriht emoc evah yeht . ihcthsiravot nacirema era eseht eno deirc sedarmoc emoc . edutitta rieht degnahc sreidlos eht yltnatsni ynloms morf sessap eht decudorp ew sioegruob iuhzroob fo tol a fo trofmoc eht tuoba rehtob ot yeht erew . dehgual ylerem sreidlos eht tubsu denioj rotcudnoc eht dna detalutsopxe deugra ew elpoep ruof ylno rof moor saw ereht . . . . deretne sreidlos ytnewt tuoba yletaidemmi tsomla tub tnemtrapmoc a otni yaw ruo egdew ot deganam su fo eerht . foor eht otno gnibmilc neve dna selsia eht pu gnillif stnemtrapmoc eht lla otni deruop dna swodniw eht dehsams srood eht demrots selbatae fo skcas eguh gniyrrac lla sreidlos ybbahs fo bom a noitats eht otni dekcab niart eht nehw . . . . latipac eht evael dluoc eno on hcihw tuohtiw ynloms morf sessap htiw dedivorp erew ew . . . . tsewhtuos sdraug der dna srolias fo daolniart retfa daolniart delruh dna daorliar ialocin eht fo lortnoc dezies dah srekrow yawliar
i . neris gnimaercs htiw tuo derebmul terrut eht morf gniylf sgalf der owt htiw elibomotua deruomra deruoloctnahpele suomrone na tnew dna emac selcycrotom dna selibomotua . moolg eht ni mid sepahs gniyrruh fo smaerts ti nopu degrevnoc teerts yreve morf dna pu evord ew sa sthgil htiw dezalb ynloms fo edacaf evissam eht . etagitsevni ot gniog fo thguoht eno on yltnerappa . . . . elpoep eht no erif lliw eh yltneserp . rotacovorp a si ti . ti ot gnitniop tnasaep llat a dias ees . denaw dna dewolg kraps der ynit a erehw gnidliub llat a fo foor eht ta pu gnirats derehtag dah snezitic dnasuoht owt tuoba ayavodas eht fo renroc eht no . . . . swen on gniniatnoc epyt suomrone ot gninnur segap ruof fo teehs elttil hsirevef a . . . troppus rof raer dna tnorf ymra eht nopu gnillac nosirp ni llits ikivehslob eht fo noitarebil eht noitulover nairatelorp eht fo yrotciv eht gnicnuonna tadlos i ihctobar saw ti . slamina ekil rehto hcae ta gniraet selbuor net selbuor evif elbuor a gnireffo elpoep citnarf yb demrots yletaidemmi 
i . ecaep fo snoitidnoc eht fo ecnatpecca etinifed eht fo esoprup eht rof seirtnuoc lla fo elpoep eht fo sevitatneserper fo seilbmessa desirohtua ekovnoc ot osla tub ti ni trap ekat ot decrof ro raw eht otni nward noitpecxe tuohtiw seitilanoitan dna snoitan eht lla fo sevitatneserper eht neewteb srelrapruop yrassecen eht dloh ot ylno ton elbissop yltcefrep si ti emit hcihw gnirud shtnom eerht tsal ot thguo ecitsimra eht taht gnitseggus emit emas eht ta ecitsimra etaidemmi na edulcnoc ot seirtnuoc tneregilleb eht lla fo selpoep eht ot dna stnemnrevog eht lla ot sesoporp tnemnrevog eht . seirtnuoc lartuen eht ni sevitatneserper desirohtua sti stnioppa tnemnrevog eht srelrapruop eseht etatilicaf ot . sevitatneserper eseht fo ecnerefnoc a ta ro seirtnuoc tnereffid eht fo sevitatneserper eht neewteb srelrapruop yb ro tsop yb hpargelet yb snoitaitogen eseht no yrrac ot ydaer flesti seralced tnemnrevog eht ecaep rof snoitaitogen cilbup ni egagne ot selpoep lla dna stnemnrevog lla ot gnisoporp ni . noissucsid tuohtiw
o thgil eht nwardhtiw dah hcruhc xodohtro yloh eht . tuo erew seldnac eht yas yeht wocsom ni saw noelopan ecnis emit tsrif eht rof won . snoki eht fo slewej dna revlis dna dlog eht no gnimaelg tuoved eht fo seldnac eht htiw tnaillirb dna dedworc dna nepo syawla saw thgin ro yad hcihw dna flesmih nworc ot nilmerk eht ot tnew eh erofeb tisiv ot desu rast wen hcae hcihw nigriv nairebi eht fo lepahc eht saw sa krad dna dekcol erew yaw ruo gnola slepahc teerts elttil eht . daehrevo gnippalf srennab eht ayaksrevt eht nwod tuo tes ew . gnisir saw ytic eht . ssab suodnemert dna ydaets a reduol emaceb dna denepeed dnuos gnirrits eugav eht rafa morf . thgil werg ti . steivos wocsom eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe lartnec ehtsrennab der deretteldlog fo faehs a htiw sretrauqdaeh teivos eht erofeb derehtag erew nemow dna nem fo puorg elttil a thgilflah elap eht ni . gnimoc dniw peed a ekil raen dna raf gnirrits fo dnuos tniaf a saw ereht tub nees eb dluoc gnieb namuh a ton ytic taerg eht lla ni . erauqs veileboks ot steerts kr
a redro fo esuac eht . noissessopfles dna teiuq etelpmoc niatniam ot uoy nopu llac ew snezitic htrae eht fo ecaf eht ffo depiw eb lliw slanimirc eht gnithgif ro yrebbor rehtehw dargortep fo steerts eht no elbuort ekam ot secrof krad eht fo tpmetta tsrif eht ta . skcarrab tseraen eht ta srassimmoc teivos eht ot meht ekat dna srotatiga derdnuh kcalb dna snagilooh tserra ot detivni si noitalupop eht . sredrosid ro ecneloiv yna wolla ton lliw nosirrag dargortep eht . stpmetta morgop dna yranoituloverretnuoc tsniaga ytic eht ni redro yranoitulover fo gnidraug eht flesti nopu sekat seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo teivos dargortep eht . dehsdoolb dna elbuort rof dargortep fo elpoep eht nopu llac ot tpmetta yam stsimorgop eht emit emas eht ta . ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht kaerb dna steivos fo ssergnoc naissurlla eht hsurc ot redro ni secrof rieht gnisilibom era istvolinrok eht . daeh lanimirc sti desiar sah noituloverretnuoc snezitic . dargortep fo noitalupop eht ot . seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo teivos dargortep e
ssap eht nopu gnidneped era ikivehslob eht . . . . yhcrana dna noitulover neewteb ecnereffid eht wonk ton od i neht hctiveknip dias yranoituloverretnuoc si ikivehslob eht tsniaga si taht gnihtyreve fi . ercassam ot tnemeticni tcerid a saw srollicnuoc kivehslob eht fo laeppa eht taht gniralced stsilanoitanretni ikivehsnem owt neht . noitartsinimda lapicinum eht ni evitca erew yeht dna srebmem eht tsniaga segrahc lanosrep on erew ereht rof revewoh delbat saw siht . amud eht morf dellepxe eb dluohs srebmem kivehslob lla taht niaga desoporp eh . . . . nosaert fo egrahc eht no deirt eb tsum ohw dna tnemtcidni rof lareneg yenrotta eht erofeb thguorb eb ot elbail erew ohw esoht htiw egaugnal nommoc on eb dluoc ereht taht dias ohw tedac voiragnihs mih dewollof . . . . os od ot osla deltitne era ew dna noitalupop eht ot laeppa na desserdda evah uoy tub . os od ton llahs ew dna tnemnrevogfles lapicinum eht dekcatta ton evah ew . amud eht tcepser ew rof eb ton llahs siht tub ereh srepap ruo etubirtsid ot nigeb osla dluo
. frus sa suorednuht saw gnimoc esohw fo ruomur eht elpoep eht fo yad eht saw siht . snosaer rehto rof tubemoh ta deyats sessalc deitreporp eht dna desolc erew spohs eht osla . . . . steivos eht etacinummocxe ot noos saw wocsom fo natiloportem nohkit . sremehpsalb eht fo evarg eht revo dias eb ot sreyarp yna erew ron daed eht rof tnemarcas on neeb dah ereht lairub der eht ta etaiciffo ot sepop on erew ereht . deraeppasid dah stseirp eht sehcruhc eht erew dloc dna tnelis dna krad . nilmerk eht dedrabmob dah ohw srepiv tnereverri fo tsen eht wocsom morf ecnanetnuoc sti fo thgil eht nwardhtiw dah hcruhc xodohtro yloh eht . tuo erew seldnac eht yas yeht wocsom ni saw noelopan ecnis emit tsrif eht rof won . snoki eht fo slewej dna revlis dna dlog eht no gnimaelg tuoved eht fo seldnac eht htiw tnaillirb dna dedworc dna nepo syawla saw thgin ro yad hcihw dna flesmih nworc ot nilmerk eht ot tnew eh erofeb tisiv ot desu rast wen hcae hcihw nigriv nairebi eht fo lepahc eht saw sa krad dna dekcol erew yaw ruo gnola slep
eerg sevrahw volitup eht ta serodevets dnasuoht evif . troppus suominanu sti sreffo tnemiger evreser htninytneves derdnuh eno eht . snitellub tsetal eht su daer ot ssenisub rehto lla dednepsus yeht . ytud no erew sretep dna votahs llib . . . . srengierof ynam meht gnoma ytic eht evael ot stropssap ro selibomotua rieht rof stimrep detnaw ohw sioegruobredrum fo lluf yldrawni tub luftcepser yldrawtuo snosrep desserdllew htiw dedworc saw gniliar eht fo tnorf ni ecaps worran eht edisni . rood eht ta erew sdraug der . roolf pot eht no 71 moor sretrauq regral otni devom dah eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht . . . elpoep eht fo srotiart eht ot sesruc dna emahs . tpmetnoc dna dertah selpoep eht fo niats eht seidob rieht morf hsaw ot elba eb reven lliw yeht . sniahc tneicna eht tevir ot gniyrt era yeht mohw no stnasaep dna srolias sreidlos srekrow lla fo ytimne eht ot meht gninodnaba era ew . yrollip eht ni meht gnittup era ew . . . . tnemhsinup devresedllew dna ydeeps tiawa srewollof sih dna yksnerek reimerp . . . 
ttimbus eb ot tnemnrevog fo mrof a rof nalp ym uoy ot eniltuo ot em wolla ris raed ym tub . . . . ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht ni rewop on evah dna sevlesmeht niur lliw yeht neht rof dab eb ton lliw ti weiv fo tniop ruo morf . gniylf tnes eb noos lliw yeht erad yeht fi ro erad ton lliw yeht . derewsna eh ellianacelttac era yeht . gnireens deggurhs eh . einnelputsyv kivehslob fodeklathcum eht fo thguoht eh tahw mih deksa i . ytrap tedac eht fo slicnuoc eht ni laitneulfni yrev taockcorf reppad a ni laudividni decaftar a ykstahs rosseforp tem i rodirroc eht ni . . . . ecalp siht ni sa sdrow ynam os draeh reven i efil ym lla ni dna dlo sraey evifytrof ma i . stsilairepmi hsilgne eht dna stsilairepmi namreg eht dna dnalnif siht dna eniarku siht . . . . ikivodurt dna ikivehslob dna ikivehsnem eseht lla . aissur roop fo gnimoceb si tahw wonk tnod i taoc ym no tup eh sa delbmurg namrood eht . . . . yrtsinim vokuilim eht dekcerw dah taht ecaep dna raw fo kcor emas eht nodekcerw saw tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht taht dna llah
em tnarongi eseht fo sdnah eht nopu doolb tneconni ruo evah tonnac ew su tsniaga desu gnieb si ecrof . dias eh snezitic dna sedarmoc hceeps a edam eh allerbmu sih gnivaw dna xob fo tros emos detnuom dah hctivopokorp tnemtneser dna regna fo ruomalc taerg a saw ereht siht ta ecaep ni su evael dna won emoh og . oot uoy toohs lliw ew yrassecen fi dna . yllacitegrene deirc eh uoy knaps lliw ew . detatirri hcum yrev pu emac rolias rehtona od uoy lliw tahw od uoy lliw tahw . gnihtemos od lliw ew . ssap uoy tel tnac ew . ssol a ta yltnedive rolias eht deilpergnihtemos od lliw ew od uoy nac tahw drawrof og lliw ew . . . . elpoep naissur demranu toohs tnow ew . snug yna tnevah ohw elpoep toohs ot gniog ton mi on toohs uoy lliw drawrof og ew fi od uoy lliw tahw . ssap ot uoy wolla tnac i nrobbuts gnikool rolias eht dias on snug ruoy ot stsaerb ruo erab ew sedarmoc dna snaissur no erif ot traeh eht evah uoy fi eid ot ydaer era ew . sedis lla morf emac drawrof ssap lliw ew ot tnaw uoy fi su toohs . ylnellus rolias eht det
sur revo lla emit fo slavretni tnereffid ta ytisnetni ressel ro retaerg htiw detacilpud yltcaxe tsomla saw dargortep ni ecalp koot tahw taht ezilaer tsum redaer eht tub . noitcerrusni eht fo traeh dna latipac eht dargortep der htiw slaed ti fo tsom yllarutan . steivos eht fo sdnah eht ni ti decalp dna aissur fo rewop etats eht dezies sreidlos dna srekrow eht fo daeh eht ta ikivehslob eht nehw noitulover rebmevon eht fo tnuocca deliated a tub gnihtyna eb ot dneterp ton seod ti . ti was i sa yrotsihyrotsih deifisnetni fo ecils a si koob siht ecaferp iix i secidneppa . ssergnoc stnasaep eht . 21 retpahc . rewop fo tseuqnoc eht . 11 retpahc . wocsom . 01 retpahc . yrotciv . 9 retpahc . noituloverretnuoc . 8 retpahc . tnorf yranoitulover eht . 7 retpahc . noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht . 6 retpahc . daeha gnignulp . 5 retpahc . tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht fo llaf eht . 4 retpahc . eve eht no . 3 retpahc . mrots gnimoc eht . 2 retpahc . dnuorgkcab . 1 retpahc . snoitanalpxe dna seton . ecaferp stnetnoc fo elbat deer nh
ssurlla eht yb nesohc cilbuper naissur eht fo tnemnrevog eht fo eman eht ni tsae dna drawhtuos niart yreve yb selab ni deppihs dna thgin taht steerts ytic eht hguorht sdnasuoht ni detalucric eb ot sesserp eht no saw eerced tsrif eht ydaerla . eldi ton saw srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc wen eht ynloms ta pu . . . . noitulover naissur eht saw os . dne eht ta ylsuominanu os gnidiced dnaylesnetni os gnikniht esoohc ot dna dnatsrednu ot drah os gniyrt srolias sreidlos stnasaep nemkrow yrtnuoc tsav eht revo lla srekaeps ta pu gnirats nem naissur fo sdnasuoht fo sderdnuh eht fo kniht steelf naissur gnulfraf eht fo spihselttab eht no segalliv eht seirotcaf eht ni noinu ruobal yreve fo slacol eht lla ni emas eht gnigami neht dna . gnitaertne gninetaerht gniugra ecalp ot ecalp morf gniyrruh stnemiger eht gnihctaw soknelyrk sselpeels eht enigami . aissur lla tnorf elohw eht tcirtsid eht ytic eht fo skcarrab yreve ni detaeper gnieb elggurts siht enigami . . . . noitulover eht fo tuo meht fo emos dnagnidliub eht fo tuo dek
 strap lauqenu otni dedivid moor naigroeg etihw lufecarg a ni . edisni saw tnadnammoc eht taht dias ecalap eht fo gniw etihw gnivruc a ni rood a edistuo yrtnes a . sretrauqdaeh rof gniksa flesti erusolcne ecalap eht otni ecalap aniretake eguh eht fo hcra eht hguorht no tnew ew . eh dias lartuen era ew neht . rehto hcae ta ylisaenu dekool yeht sa tnemom a rof ecnelis saw ereht steivos eht ro spoort syksnerek uoy era . etabed dna tnemugra thginlla yadlla fo skeew dna skeew morf erew yeht yldetbuodnu sa desserped yrev dekool lla yeht . eno derewsna draug eht era ew . deksa i uoy era ohw . meht ot pu debmilc i . ecarret yssarg a morf nwod ylidoom derats ohw sreidlos demra citnagig nezod a flah fo ezag suoicipsus nellus eht retnuocne ot pu dekool dna noitavresbo fo erawa ylneddus erew ew ottorg laicifitra na morf ylgnisaecnu taps naws nori suolucidir a erehw ecalp eno ta . sniatnuof eht morf gnihsalps retaw tfos dna thgin eht ni ylniatrecnu gnimool segdirb latnemanro dna snoilivap citsatnaf rieht snedrag krad tsav
vah tahw . deksa yeht rettam eht stahw . su ot noitageled a tnes dna anihctag ta niart eht deppots yeht os suoicipsus erew nem eht . dargortep ot emoc ot tnemnrevog eht yb deredro saw taht tnemiger a morf drow tog ew oga etunim a . nirg desaelp a htiw eh dias su ot revo emoc tsuj sah ssertrof luapretep . yllufhsab rehtar sdnah ekahs ot dessap eh sa deppots eh . rimizal deman yob dloraeyneethgie dedaehwot a fo pihsnamriahc eht rednu noisses suounitnoc ni tas eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht roolf pot eht no 01 moor ni . ynloms ot deirruh i ereht morf . . . . edicimoh hcum os dna tuoba gninnur tneloiv hcum os eb dluohs ereht yhw dneherpmoc ot elbanu yllatot rednow ekildlihc ni neercs eht ta gnirats srolias dna sreidlos emos erew tnorf nwod . eugirtni dna noissap fo mlif nailati ydoolb alardehtac nazak eht raen wohs erutcip gnivom a ot tnew ew . . . . seirotcaf eht ni nemkrow eht skcarrab eht ni deyats sreidlos eht ikivehslob eht morf ngis on llits tub . dnuos prahs yreve ta gnitrats suovren saw ytic eht . .
eht . reidlos rehtona htiw eettimmoc latnemiger eht fo namriahc eht deretne ereht dna denepo moor eht fo rood eht neht tsuj . kcolco evif ta em deveiler nivasrak . daor siht gnola noitisop eht deipucco ew sredro ot gnidrocca . detniop volrehk niatpac ynapmoc ruoy si erehw hctivoliryk rimidalv . gninrom siht snoitisop ruo erew skram licnep ot gnitniop lenoloc eht dias ereh . ees ot dnuora dedworc tser eht . elbat eht no tuo meht daerps lenoloc eht dna thguorb erew spam revo rennid . . . . sessamreidlos eht wollof tsum yeht taht eveileb yeht ycarcomed ni eveileb yeht em ekil tub ikivehslob ton era ymra eht ni sreciffo eht fo tsom taht yas dluohs i . . . . gniw thgir eht fo yranoitulover tsilaicos a ma flesym i . tedac a si ereht volrehk niatpac . kivehsnem a si lenoloc eht . thginot dargortep ni si eh . tnemiger siht ni reciffo kivehslob eno ylno si ereht . dneirf ym derewsna on . ylredro eht ta ylevitruf gnicnalg owt ro eno thguac i tub elbat eht dnuora tnew elims a . yksvorom deksa i ikivehslob ton era uoy no
e otni thguorb vovl yb detcejorp seettimmoc dnal esohtseettimmoc dnal eht fo sredro eht yebo ot desufer yltalf ikihcthseimop eht tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht rednu . . . . ytilacol eht ot gnidrocca yrav lliw tnasaep hcae yb deviecer dnal fo tnuoma eht . dnal eht fo noisivid fo snoitseuq eht dediced eb lliw tops eht no woleb morf . evoba morf smrofer esilaer ot deirt dna krowemarf a gnitcere fo ekops ohw vonrehct retsinim remrof fo tcejorp eht ninel denialpxe ton si siht . detacsifnoc eb ton llahs ymra eht ni gnivres skcassoc fo dna stnasaep fo sdnal eht . 7191 ht91 tsugua 88. on dargortep aitseivzi dias fo 88. on ni dehsilbup dna seituped stnasaep fo teivos naissurlla eht fo aitseivzi eht fo draob lairotide eht yb izakan tnasaep lacol 242 fo sisab eht no pu nward snoitcurtsni 3 . tces v . ppa ees zakan tnasaep gniwollof eht evres llahs ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht yb noituloser lanif rieht litnu smrofer dnal taerg eht fo noitasilaer eht gnirud ecnadiug rof . 4 . elpoep eht fo sdnah eht otni gnissap . cte stcudorp f
esra eht fo noissessop rof ytic eht fo tnadnammoc eht htiw gnitaitogen saw dna eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim a pu tes dah wocsom fo teivos eht . . . . htron gnihcram saw nidelak . depacse dah eh dna vohkyb ta sdraug snoitanalpxe dna seton ees sih derethguals dah istnihket lufhtiaf svolinrok . emac swen . . . . lla meht gnoma snairatelorp eerht naht erom ees ton did i desserdllew defllew saw dworc amud siht . spmac lla tsomla fo slautcelletni stneduts stsilanruoj htiw revaniv keels ykstahs ylio ekil stedac htiw sredluohs debbursvonrehct sveilebokssretsinim tsilaicos remrof ehtsrebeil snad sveitneskvasredael yranoitulover laicos dna kivehsnem eht ereh ecnetsixe rof elggurts eturb eht ni derracs dna tneb nem roopstnasaep nemkrow ymirg sreidlos ybbahs fo sessam taerg ereht . steivos fo ssergnoc eht dna egalbmessa siht neewteb tsartnoc eht naht gnikirts erom eb dluoc gnihton . . . meht wohs llew aiztnegilletni eht ot etatcid ot yrt lliw ikivehslob eseht . stirips hgih ni saw dworc eht . stnemele kivehslobitna e
da lliw tnemnrevog siht rof eporue ni ecaep etaidemmi rof rotcaf lufrewop a eb lliw taht steivos eht fo tnemnrevog a ereh etaerc ew fi . eporue ni si ereht esnopser yranoitulover fo ytitnauq eht no sdneped tnemelttes ecaep eht ni teg ew ycarcomed fo ytitnauq eht . smret ecaep citarcomed ssucsid ot selpoep fo ecnerefnoc a dna stnorf lla no ecitsimra etaidemmi na rof llac ot eb lliw tca tsrif ruo ycilop ngierof stnemnrevog wen eht fo kaeps ot no tnew eh . . . . riaffa volinrok eht gnirud decnavda dna hcram ni nugeb ylecracs krow eht etelpmoc lliw ew . evisiced eb lliw rewsna ruo . su kcatta ot tnemom eht rof stiaw dna secrof sti lla sesinagro noituloverretnuoc sioegruob eht . elanif ettul eht si ti . . . . ecnatropmi suoires fo spuorg on era ereht spmac owt eht neewteb . elpoep eht fo esuac eht tneserper steivos eht edis rehto eht no . tnatilim noituloverretnuoc eht stneserper ytrap tedac eht . cilbuper naissur eht fo licnuoc eht fo srodirroc eht ni dehctah gnieb won era stros lla fo semehcs yranoituloverretnuo
yksniram eht fo llah nosmirc dna elbrametihw eht ot tnew i ht92 rebotco no . . . 7 . tces ii . ppa ees . dellik ynam dna yrellitra yb no derif neht dna devrats dna dednuorrus neeb dah yeht . aissur ot tnes eb ot gnidnamed akinolas ot og ot redro na desufer dah dna emoh ta sedarmoc rieht ekil seettimmoc sreidlos htiw sreciffo sti ecalper ot deirt dah edagirb tsrif eht . tnetnocsid eht ot dedda ecnarf ni spoort naissur fo tnemtaert eht fo swen . . . 6 . tces ii . ppa ees . aissur fo esnepxe eht ta ecaep fo sruomur emac eporue morf . . . . htiw thgif ot noitinumma hguone ro no evil ot doof hguone su evig tnseod emit emas eht ta dna sgniht hcus fo klat ot neve su sdibrof tnemnrevog eht won tub . ecaep gnirb dluow noitulover eht taht thguoht ew . meht stroppus tnemnrevog yranoituloverretnuoc eht dna srotatiga ruo ot ytlanep htaed eht ylppa yeht ymene eht ot su yarteb yeht seettimmoc ruo htiw krow ton lliw sreciffo eht yrellitra nairebis htxisytrof eht rof . . . . ymra eht troppus ro raw eht dne tnemnrevog eht tel 
redle fo eettimmoc sti elihwnaem eht ni . ecalpgniteem wen a deruces ti litnu sruobal sti eunitnoc ot elbanu ylerem tub lla ta devlossid flesti redisnoc ton did dias eh licnuoc eht . ni emac ew sa gniklat saw cilbuper eht fo licnuoc eht fo rebmem a . tsalb lluf ni saw amud eht gnidliub lapicinum eht ni . ninelvonailu rimidalv srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc eht fo tnediserp eht cilbuper naissur eht fo tnemnrevog eht fo eman eht ni . nopu denimreted etad eht ta snoitcele raluger dna eerf erussa ot troffe yreve ekam dluohs tnorf eht no snoitasinagro sreidlos dna seituped stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo steivos tnemnrevogfles lacol fo snagro snoissimmoc larotcele lla . 2 . 21 rebmevonnopu denimreted etad eht ta ecalp ekat llahs ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht rof snoitcele eht . 1 seerced srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc eht seituped tnasaep fo noitapicitrap htiw seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo steivos fo ssergnoc naissurlla eht yb nesohc cilbuper naissur eht fo tnemnrevog eht fo eman eht ni tsae dna drawhtuos niart yreve
7191 31 rebmevon . tnemhcated ovoklup eht fo spoort eht ot i rebmun redro yrotciv xi retpahc noitulover eht evil gnol ekil uoy fi kotsovidalv rowocsom ot uoy ekat lliw ew . eno deirc sedarmoc yaw siht . os ro namerif a namekarb eerht ro owt doots ti ni ediw gnulf saw rood rehtona ylneddus . drawrof egrus ot nageb srolias eht mih ta deraor erauqs gnihtees eht lla . . . . raw livic elbirret si ereht ydaerla erehw wocsom ot uoy ekat tonnac ew . edis rehtie rof spoort yrrac ton od ew . lartuen era ew . wocsom ot uoy yrrac tonnac ew sedarmoc . meht htiw gnidaelp saw lehzkiv eht fo rebmem a spets eht no gnidnats . selfir htiw gniltsirb ereht dessam erew srolias dnasuoht lareves . noitats yawliar ialocin eht fo tnorf ni dworc lausunu na tuo edam ew erauqs yksnemanz ssorca emoh gnivird . . . . rassimmoc selpoep ykztort . l licnuoc eht fo eman eht ni aissur tsilaicos ralupop yranoitulover evil gnol elpoep eht ot lufhtiaf erew ohw sreciffo eht dna sreidlos eht noitulover eht fo sroirraw eht ot yrolg llef ohw esoht ot y
lias a nam driht a deksa derutpac saw ecalap retniw eht woh wonk uoy od drow a dias nam elgnis a ton dnatuo deklaw dna sredluohs ruo no meht tup ew rehto eht i trap eno pu dekcip dniklaz edarmoc nugenihcam eht delpuocnu moor eht ssorca thgir deklaw ew . derats tsuj dna gniklat deppots yeht su was yeht nehw . su fo eerht meht fo neetfif ro evlewtelbat eht dnuora tas yeht sa meht no ni thgir deklaw dna rood eht denepo ew llew . gniteem a gnivah erew seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem eht . ereht tnew edarmoc rehtona dna i dna eh os . snamreg eht morf derutpac neeb dah hcihw nugenihcam a avarpu eht fo moorgniteem eht ni gniyl saw ereht taht ecno ta lla derebmemer amud draw eht fo uaerub lartnec avarpu eht fo rebmem a saw ohw gniklaz edarmoc . ynloms morf yna teg tndluoc ew dna gnihgual dias eh ereht revo snugenihcam yna evah tndid ew . gnisir eht fo yad taerg eht no tcirtsid sih ni deneppah dah tahw liated taerg ni debircsed vortso ilisav morf draug der a . . . . hcram eht no lla saw nosirrag eht dna wef a
aw ereht siht ta . . . . gniog tpek erew senohpelet eht dna detsetorp i tub detcennocsid ynloms ot senohpelet eht deredro vokinvoklop lenoloc sreknuy eht yb deipucco saw egnahcxe enohpelet eht nehw . lartuen yltcefrep era ew . . . . seitrap htob yb detcepser eb tsum sthgir ruo dna noitca fo ytrebil lluf nevig eb tsum ew dna gnisaercni si krow ruo fo erehps eht . gnidliub amud eht nihtiw revetahw srepapswen yna fo noitubirtsid eht tneverp tonnac amud eht erofereht dna ytilatipsoh hcus yb tiforp ot erised hcihw snoitasinagro lla ot ytilatipsoh wohs ot dnuob si ytic eht . snezitic eht fo stseretni eht gnitcetorp fo elbapac si hcihw nagro ylno eht si tnemnrevogfles lapicinum eht sa noitautis rehto yna fo timda ton seod naeporue a fo dnim eht . nwot eht fo royam eht yb dengis era sa stnemucod hcus ylno esingocer seissabme ngierof eht tcaf siht sesingocer noitalupop lufecaep eht . tnemnrevogfles lapicinum eht si redro fo ertnec ylno eht dnal eht ni rewop lagel on si ereht nehw emit a ta tub . seitrap eht neewteb el
ni dna . . . . semehcs gnihctah srelggums seips namreg stolp tsihcranom . . . . sfac eht dedworc nwod dna pu deklaw sruf evisnepxe dna slewej ni setutitsorp thgin ta ytic eht fo ertnec eht ni . selbur dnasuoht ytnewt fo sekats dna gniwolf engapmahc htiw nwad ot ksud morf yllacitceh denoitcnuf sbulc gnilbmag . . . . teivos dargortep eht fo snoisses suoiraorpu eht ot dedworc elpoep dnasuoht a llah taerg eht ni sriatspu . moor dnif dluoc yeht reverehw roolf eht no tpels nemkrow dna sreidlos fo sderdnuh thgin lla dna yad lla demmuh dna dezzub smooreettimmoc eht . ssap sydobyreve gnidnamed setag retuo eht dna rood eht ta sdraug tcirts erew ereht ynloms ta . . . . ylsuoiruxul devil srebmem teivos eht devrats elpoep eht elihw taht dnaylppus doof eht derenroc dah swej eht taht gnirepsihw klim dna daerb rof sruoh dloc gnol eueuq ni detiaw ohw nemow gnirevihs eht dnuora detalucric slaudividni suoiretsym . . . . gnilaets thguac reidlos a htaed ot elpmart dna taeb elpoep derdnuh lareves fo dworc a was i noonretfa eno aya
srekrow eht ot yllaicepse sevlesruo sserdda ew yhw si taht seirtnuoc tneregilleb eht lla ni tuo kaerb noos lliw noitulover taht epoh ew tub . erocs taht no sevlesruo loof tnod ewstnemnrevog tsilairepmi eht fo trap eht no ecnatsiser htiw teem lliw ecaep fo lasoporp siht . sevitatneserper rieht tcele ot meht rof emit elpma dna noitanimretxe ydoolb siht retfa elbissop sa tser a gnol sa selpoep eht ot evig ot erised ew shtnom eerht ta ecitsimra eht fo noitarud eht gnixif ni . ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht yb deifitar eb lliw ecitsimra eht gnirud pu nward ecaep fo snoitidnoc eht . ecaep fo noisulcnoc eht yaled thgim seirtnuoc tneregilleb eht fo selpoep eht ot ylno desserdda eb dluow hcihw noitaralced a rof selpoep eht ot sa llew sa stnemnrevog eht ot sevlesruo sserdda ew . noitaralced siht yfitar ot ssergnoc eht ot esoporp ew niaga ekops ninel yawa deid dah esualppa fo rednuht evarg eht nehw . noitatiolpxe lla dna yrevals lla morf sessam gnikrow detiolpxe eht fo noitarebil eht fo esuac eht emit emas eht ta dnaecaep fo 
a yub ot tub tfarg syawla saw ereht ereh eurt aissur ni neppah ton dluoc sgniht hcus rast eht rednu neve ti dnats elpoep eht did yhw tifeneb lanosrep rieht rof ti detiolpxe dna ytic elohw a lortnoc dluoc elpoep fo puorg elttil a yrtnuoc eerf a ni taht eurt ti saw ynammat siht tuoba woh detnaw yeht tahw teg yeht did woh os fi yenom rof setov rieht dlos yrtnuoc eerf a ni elpoep taht eurt ti saw acirema tuoba snoitseuq em gniksa nageb eno yreve ecno ta . stopaet elbativeni eht esruoc fo dna daerb kcalb fo faol eguh a ni thguorb saw ahsak fo lluf but rehtona . elbat eht ta ecalp ym koot i dna decudorp saw noops nedoow a . ssik ytraeh a em evag dna em dnuora smra sih tup reidlos dlo eno dna dnah ym ekahs ot esor eno yreve taerehw . tsilaicos nacirema na sa em decudortni dna dneirf ym deirc noilattab sreenigne evreser htxis eht fo eettimmoc noilattab eht ot emoclew . rethgual hcum htiw ylduol gniklat dna snoops nedoow htiw buthsaw nit taerg a morf puos egabbac ihcths gnitae sreidlos ytnewt emos detaes erew elbat ne
p eht fo tuo gniyrrac eht erusne ot detaluger eb llahs noitisopmoc esohw snoissimmoc ot detsurtni eb llahs ytivitca etats fo sehcnarb tnereffid eht fo noitartsinimda eht 5 . tces v . ppa ees . srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc eht deman eb llahs hcihw demrof si tnemnrevog stnasaep dna srekrow lanoisivorp a ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht fo gniteem eht litnu rewop fo noitutitsnoc eht fo eerced eht gnidaer saw veinemak . hsuh esnet a llef . m . a 03. 2 ta 4 . tces v . ppa ees . noisiced rof tnemnrevog eht ot rettam eht evael ot desoporp ylitsah veinemak ehcseet onlov od fo stuohs raorpu . . . . dehsinup eb dluohs dna rotiart a si retresed yreve enola sehcnert eht ni eid ot sedarmoc rieht evael dna emoh yawa nur ohw slerdnuocs era sretresed noitresed ekil krow ytrid neddih eb nac hcihw dniheb neercs a ton si yksnerek fo tnemnrevog eht ti decnuoned yltoh reidlos rehtona tub . esualppa saw ereht dne eht ta nworhtrevo evah uoy hcihw yksnerek fo tnemnrevog eht tresed ot mih decrof ohw . . . . sehtolc ro stoob tuohtiw saw eh .
p eht fo tnemitnes gnimlehwrevo eht tneserper lliw ti dias eh ssergnoc a si ereht fi . emoc dluow setageled hguone taht erus lla ta ton saw eh . serutseg cillag dna draeb detniop hsidder a htiw nam elttil a veinemak htiw ekops i ynloms fo srodirroc eht ni ht82 rebotco no tuo emoc ton od stsop ruoy ot ylnrobbuts kcits . . . . ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht kcerw dna mlehliw ot tnorf eht nepo noitulover eht yortsed ot noitcerrusni siht fo egatnavda ekat ot gninnalp era srettolp yranoituloverretnuoc eht . . . . ruobal hcum os htiw pu tliub tairatelorp eht fo snoitasinagro lla fo noitcurtsed eht ti morf tluser nac ereht dna raw livic otni nrut ylisae nac noitcerrusni yna gnissap si aissur yranoitulover hcihw hguorht emit lufraef siht ni . . . . gnisirpu na ot meht gniticni steerts eht no sreidlos dna srekrow eht fo trap tuo llac lliw sdaehtoh laudividni stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow eht fo ytirojam eht fo dnim fo etats eht noitaredisnoc otni gnikat ton taht neppah ylisae yam ti . regnad taerg a meht htiw yrrac sevlesme
orrus ot nevig neeb dah sredro on taht dias eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht taht dna ynloms ot denohpelet dah eh taht noitamrofni eht htiw devirra rebmem eno elihwnaem eht ni . . . . noisses tnenamrep ni niamer ot noituloser . tnemnrevog nwot detcele rieht fo ecnefed eht rof pu dnats ot dargortep fo noitalupop eht ot laeppa rehtona sserdda ot noituloser . srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc dellacos eht htiw ro eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim eht fo sevitatneserper htiw revetahw snoitaler yna otni retne ot amud eht fo namriahc eht ro royam eht rof elbissopmi saw ti taht noituloser . hpargelet yb aissur lla fo sovtsmez dna samud eht mrofni ot noituloser . . . . shtog eht fo gnimoc eht ytingid htiw tiawa ew dlo fo srotanes namor eht ekil erehw rebmahc siht ezies yeht llahs seidob daed ruo revo ylnoyrt meht tel su evlossid ot staerht eseht rof sa desingocer eb reven dluohs stnega namreg eht srotacovorp eht stnaryt eht elbaloivni erew srebmem eht lla fo taht dna nosrep sroyam eht rewop yna yb devlossid eb ton dlu
oc eht stenoyab fo ecrof eht ot gnidec sgnorw sti deticer cilbuper eht fo licnuoc eht llibdnah a ni . . . . eettimmoc lartnec eht fo llac tsrif eht ta ydaer eb ot ylsuoires sevlesmeht eraperp ot dna noitulover dna yrtnuoc fo noitavlas rof eettimmoc eht dnuora sevlesmeht puorg ot stnemele enas lla nopu llac ew . . . . enola era ikivehslob eht . ssergnoc eht tfel evah ikivehslob wef eht tpecxe snoitcaf lla . recracs gnitteg si daerb dna ekirts no era seirtsinim eht . . . . dedivid si nosirrag eht . espalloc fo eve eht no si ikivehslob eht fo tpmetta enasni eht ytrap yranoitulover tsilaicos eht fo noitces reidlos eht morf . . . . sessalcgnikrow eht fo lliw eht fo noitaloiv lanimirc siht ni yrtnasaep desinagro eht fo noitapicitrap lla noitangidni htiw setuferseituped stnasaep fo steivos naissurlla eht fo eettimmoc evitucexe ehtfo nosrep eht nistnasaep gnikrow eht lla taht dna eil a si siht taht wonk aissur ssalcgnikrow lla tel . . . . seituped stnasaep fo steivos eht fo flaheb no gnikaeps era yeht taht dna seitup
idliub lapicinum eht ni . ninelvonailu rimidalv srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc eht fo tnediserp eht cilbuper naissur eht fo tnemnrevog eht fo eman eht ni . nopu denimreted etad eht ta snoitcele raluger dna eerf erussa ot troffe yreve ekam dluohs tnorf eht no snoitasinagro sreidlos dna seituped stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo steivos tnemnrevogfles lacol fo snagro snoissimmoc larotcele lla . 2 . 21 rebmevonnopu denimreted etad eht ta ecalp ekat llahs ylbmessa tneutitsnoc eht rof snoitcele eht . 1 seerced srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc eht seituped tnasaep fo noitapicitrap htiw seituped sreidlos dna srekrow fo steivos fo ssergnoc naissurlla eht yb nesohc cilbuper naissur eht fo tnemnrevog eht fo eman eht ni tsae dna drawhtuos niart yreve yb selab ni deppihs dna thgin taht steerts ytic eht hguorht sdnasuoht ni detalucric eb ot sesserp eht no saw eerced tsrif eht ydaerla . eldi ton saw srassimmoc selpoep fo licnuoc wen eht ynloms ta pu . . . . noitulover naissur eht saw os . dne eht ta ylsuominanu os gnidiced dnay
p a fo tcejorp eht daer elbmaerp tuohtiw yam i taht kniht i taht raelc os si ecaep dna raw fo noitseuq eht . . . . seitaert terces eht etaiduper dna hsilbup llahs ew esimorp ruo ot gnidrocca emit emas eht ta . selpoep fo noitanimretedfles fo thgir eht dna seitinmedni on snoitaxenna onsmret teivos eht fo sisab eht nopu seirtnuoc tneregilleb eht lla fo selpoep eht ot ecaep reffo llahs ew . . . . ecaep esilaer ot serusaem lacitcarp fo noitpoda eht si gniht tsrif eht . raor namuh gnimlehwrevo taht niaga redro tsilaicos eht tcurtsnoc ot deecorp won llahs ew ylpmis dias eh dehsinif ti nehw . setunim lareves detsal hcihw noitavo gnillorgnol eht ot suoivilbo yltnerappa gnitiaw ereht doots eh sa dworc eht revo levart seye gnikniw elttil sih gnittel dnats gnidaer eht fo egde eht gnippirg ninel won . . . . stnemiger rieht fo sgniteerg citsaisuhtne eht thguorb tnorf eht morf devirra tsuj sreidlos lareves . latipac eht morf doof dna laoc ffo tuc thgim ohw nidelak tsniaga serusaem ekat ot ssergnoc eht nopu dellac nisab nod
irts eht fo seiralas eht yap ot dnuf a gnitcelloc sesuoh ssenisub fo sdnuor eht gnikam saw amud eht morf eettimmoc a won neve . ekirts no erew seirtsinim eht . desolc erew sknab etavirp eht lla . meht ot yenom tuo yap ot desufer ynloms morf srassimmoc rednu krow ot desufer dah knab etats eht fo seeyolpme eht . gninoitcnuf deppots dah yrenihcam latnemnrevog eht lla . . . . denodnaba ydaerla saw ynloms . dias yeht ikivehslob eht gnivael erew stnemiger nosirrag eht ytic eht ni . raw livic eht tlah ot ecrof a otni spoort lartuen eht esinagro ot gniyrt neewteb ni erehwemos saw vonrehct . tnemnrevog lanoisivorp eht ot revo gniog eb ot dias erew skcassoc sih htiw tcatnoc ni spoort teivos eht . sruoh wef a niworromot ytic eht retne dluow eh . yawa selim evif angapmac dargortep eht ni ydaerla saw dna dlot erew ew oles eyoksrast nekat dah tnediserpretsinim eht . dleif sram ni yletaidemmi elbmessa dna smra rieht nwod yal ot sreidlos deredro dna timbus ton did ohw lla no ecnaegnev elbirret denetaerht hcihw yksven eht nwo
t ni yksven eht pu . . . . yrujni tsethgils eht deviecer sah eno ton sreknuy eht rof sa . noitaredisnoc yreve htiw detaert neeb evah yeht ereh thguorb gnieb erew sretsinim eht sa derrucco hcihw stnedicni eht rof tpecxe . ylwols dias eh stroper eht ni hturt on si ereht . ytingid elbarenev fo ecaf sih su ot denrut eh snoitagitsevni ruoy fo tluser eht yllaiciffo su llet esaelp uoy lliw . stnednopserroc nacirema era ew dias i royam . rm . yldeticxe gniklat dna royam eht dnuora depuorg pmal lio na fo thgil elbeef eht ni rood eht edistuo tsuj ereht doots yeht deedni . ylsselerac dias eh llah eht ni tuo llits era yeht . deddon aet fo ssalg a flesmih gniruop saw ohw tnadnammoc eht neht noissimmoc amud eht ot klat ew dluoc . yawa yltpurba denrut eh . worromot tuo og lliw tser eht dna yawyna desaeler neeb evah sreknuy eht fo tsom . . . . meht ercassam ot gniog erew ew erus erew yehtpu meht ekaw ot dellepmoc neeb tsuj evah i . niaga srenosirp eht brutsid ot gniog ton ma i . ylbatirri reidlos gnuoy eht dias on dlrow eht 
 si daerb neht srekrow eht ot derussa si yrtsudni fo lortnoc neht stnasaep eht ot derussa si dnal eht neht . ecaep tsuj a fo lasoporp etaidemmi stsilatipac eht fo kcehc etaidemmi ynnaryt droldnal fo noitiloba etelpmoc a naem lliw ti esac taht ni dna stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow yranoitulover eht fo sdnah eht ot derrefsnart eb lliw rewop ehtro . . . . htaed dna regnuh elbativeni raw eht fo noitaunitnoc stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow eht rof noisserper fo dnik yreve naem lliw siht dna werc droldnalsioegruob eht fo sdnah eht ni niamer lliw rewop ehtrehtie . noitautis tneserp eht ot sevitanretla owt ylno era ereht taht sesilaer tarcomed tsenoh yreve tsilaicos laer yreve rekrow yreve reidlos yreve nageb ti . gnidih ni noinapmoc sninelveivoniz dengis saw elcitra gnidael eht dnal daerb ecaep stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow fo steivos eht otrewop lla senildaeh eguh dah ailov ayakssur eht fo eciffo dereuqnoc eht ni steehs dezisegral no detnirp repap kivehslob eht . neid fo ypoc dnahdnoces a rof skepok ytfif reidlos a di
immoc yranoitulover yratilim eht yb deussi etutitsni ynloms ot ssap swollof noitalsnart deer ot ssap naissur 94egap cihparg . . . . hguorht dekaens yllaunitnoc seips rof sruoh wef yreve degnahc saw metsys ssap eht dna tuo nevig erew sessap . ssenisub rieht dna ytitnedi rieht ot sa denoitseuq eb ot emit a ta ruof ni tel eb ot gnitiaw elpoep fo enil gnol a saw ereht rood tnorf eht edisni ecno dna setag retuo eht dedraug seirtnes fo swor elbuod . ni teg ot ysae regnol on saw ti . ynloms ta emit fo laed taerg a tneps i . . . . ffo syad eerht ylno saw ssergnoc eht dna murouq a detutitsnoc derdnuh ruof . . . . ikivehslob erew eerht dna derdnuh eno mohw fo evifytneves dna derdnuh a taht retfa gninrom eht dna derdnuh a erew ereht yad txen . devirra dah steivos fo ssergnoc eht ot setageled neetfif ylno d2 rebmevon no ikivehslob eht yb ytic eht ni detaerc noitacovorp elbaveilebnu eht fo taht si trap citamgine rehto eht taht yas ot yticadua eht evah i dna em ot sneppah tahw rettam tnseod ti nam demood a ma i no tnew eh 
dessap swen eht nilmerk eht gnidrabmob era yeht . nilmerk ehteisioegruob eht fo dlohgnorts tsal eht tsniaga yrellitra rieht denrut dah ikivehslob eht erehw wocsom doolb htiw nur dah steerts eht erehwaztinniv dorogvon votaras nazak . yrotciv nairatelorp fo raor esnemmi eht kcab gniohce emac taefed syksnerek fo swen evaw a ekil tsrub gnithgifteerts etarepsed nopuerehw aissur taerg fo srenroc tsehtraf eht morf . . . . slautcelletniwef yrev awef a dna stnasaep sseldnal eht sreidlos desilaromednu eht lla srolias eht srekrow eht fo elif dna knar eht erew steivos eht fo edis eht no . dertah elbacalpmi na htiw ikivehslob eht detah seitrap tsilaicos rehto eht . stnega skrelc srepeekpohs nem lanoisseforp stneduts srehcaet snaicitilop sreciffo ymra srenwodnal srotsevni srotaluceps nem ssenisubmeht tsniaga erew lla . . . . lufraef tub suoutpmetnoc sioegruob fo sdworc tnelis neewteb dum htiw yreppils dna dethgil yltniaf steerts hguorht gniyaws stenoyab llat rieht nemow dna nem depmart yeht ksud rettib eht ni . dargortep d
eht fo srolias eht nemkrow natiloportem eht rebmetpes yb desipsed dna detnuh erew yeht yluj ni . sessam naissur eht derutpac yldipar ikivehslob eht eisioegruob eht htiw esimorpmoc ni sevlesmeht devlovni seiranoitulover tsilaicos dna ikivehsnem istnorobo eht elihw os dna . emmargorp etaidemmi rieht tliub meht morf dna stnasaep dna sreidlos srekrow eht fo serised elpmis edurc eht koot yeht llits tnetop erom tub . ymene rettib rieht tsilaicos etaredom saw steivos eht fo ytirojam eht emit taht ta rof gnikeesfles ylerem ton erew yeht dnasteivos eht ot rewop lla sessam eht ot raed os nagols eht niaga desiar ikivehslob eht . etufer dluoc ydobon tnemugra na saw tnemnrevog lanoisivorp gnignahcreve eht fo noisicedni dna ecnetopmi eht . deniamer xis ylno litnuliab on ro lanimon no lairt tuohtiw nosirp morf desaeler stnemucod nossis suomaf eht fo trap erew ikivehslob eht eno yb eno dna seiregrof eb ot derevocsid erew ycaripsnoc namregorp gnivorp stnemucod eht snoitasucca sti etaitnatsbus ot elbanu flesti dnuof tnemnrevog
 demrots selbatae fo skcas eguh gniyrrac lla sreidlos ybbahs fo bom a noitats eht otni dekcab niart eht nehw . . . . latipac eht evael dluoc eno on hcihw tuohtiw ynloms morf sessap htiw dedivorp erew ew . . . . tsewhtuos sdraug der dna srolias fo daolniart retfa daolniart delruh dna daorliar ialocin eht fo lortnoc dezies dah srekrow yawliar eht fo elif dna knar eht yb dedia eettimmoc yranoitulover yratilim dargortep eht keew tsap eht rof . ereht esnetni erom saw efil . noitulover eht tuoba elpoep naissur eht fo gnileef eurt eht teg dluow ew wocsom ni eb lliw dna saw ti sa aissur aissur laer si wocsom . ytic laicifitra na llits si tnemnrevog fo taes eht yrutnec a rof gnieb fo etips ni lla retfa dargortep . ereht og ot dediced ew taht stroper lufraef eseht fo ecneulfni eht rednu saw ti dna . . . . worg ot deunitnoc wocsom ni noitcurtsed fo seirots eht revewoh gnihsinimid fo daetsni . devomer gnieb erew steerts eht ni sedacirrab eht daed rieht kees ot srallec rieht fo tuo gnipeerc erew snezitic denethgirf eht .