stopped the train at gatchina and sent a delegation to us . whats the matter they asked . what have you got to say we have just passed a resolution all power to the soviets . . . . the military revolutionary committee sent back word brothers we greet you in the name of the revolution . stay where you are until further instructions all telephones he said were cut off but communication with the factories and barracks was established by means of military telephonograph apparatus . . . . a steady stream of couriers and commissars came and went . outsid the door waited a dozen volunteers ready to carry word to the farthest quarters orf the city . one of them a gypsyfaced man in the lniform of a lieutenant said in french everything is ready to move at the push of a button . . . . there passed podvoisky the thin bearded civillian whose brain conceived the strategy of insurrection antonov unshaven his collar filthy drunk with loss of sleep krylenko the squat widefaced soldier always smiling with his violent gestures
ltimatum to the committee of public safety demanding the immediate surrender of the kremlin or bombkardment would follow . bombard he kremlit cried the ordinary citizen . they dare not from vologda to chita in far siberia from pskov to sevastopol on the black sea in great cities and little villages civil war burst into flame . from thousands of factories peasant communes regiments and armies ships on the wide sea greetings poured into petrogradgreetings to the government of the people . the cossack government at novotcherkask telegraphed to kerensky the government of the cossack troops invites the provisional government and the members of the council of the republic to come if possible to novotcherkask where we can organise in common the struggle against the bolsheviki . in finland also things were stirring . the soviet of helsingfors and the tsentrobalt central committee of the baltic fleet jointly proclaimed a state of siege and declared that all attempts to interfere with the bolshevik forces and all armed
book are dan lieber tseretelli . b . menseiki internationalists . the radical wing of the mensheviki internationalists and opposed to all coalition with the propertied classes yet unwilling to break loose from the conservative mensheviki and opposed to the dictatorship of the workingclass advocated by the bolsheviki . trotzky was long a member of this group . among their leaders martov martinov . c . bolsheviki . now call themselves the communist party in order to emphasise their complete separation from the tradition of moderate or parliamentary socialism which dominates the mensheviki and the socalled majority socialists in all countries . the bolsheviki proposed immediate proletarian insurrection and seizure of the reins of government in order to hasten the coming of socialism by forcibly taking over indutry land natural resources and financial institutions . this party expresses the desires chiefly of the factory workers but also of a large section of the poor peasants . the name bolshevik can not be t
 when somebody cried comrades dont touch anything dont take anything this is the property of the people immediately twenty voices were crying stop put everything back dont take anything property of the people many hands dragged the spoilers down . damask and tapestry were snatched from the arms of those who had them two men took way the bronze clock . roughly and hastily the things were crammed back in their cases and selfappointed sentinels stood guard . it was all utterly spontaneous . through corridors and up staircases the cry could be heard growing fainter and fainter in the distance revolutionary discipline property of the people . . . . we crossed back over to the left entrance in the west wing . there order was also being established . clear the palace bawled a red guard sticking his head through an inner door . come comrades lets show that were not thieves and bandits . everybody out of the palace except the commissars until we get sentries posted  two red guards a soldiern and an officer stood with
 of socialism to a real and lasting victory . you consider it won then he lifted his shoulders . there is much to do . horribly much . it is just beginning . . . . on the landing i met riazanov vicepresident of the trsade unions looking black and biting his grey beard . its insane insane he shouted . the european workingclass wont move all russia he waved his hand distractedly and rmn off . riazanov and kameniev had both opposed the insurrection and felt the lash of lenins terrible tongue . . . . it had been a momentous session . in the name of the military revolutionary committee trotzky had declared that the provisional government no longer existed . the characteristic of bourgeoi governments he said is to deceive the people . we the soviets of workers soldiers and peasants deputies are going to try an experiment unique in history we are going to found a power which will have no other aim but to satisfy the needs of the soldiers workers and peasants . lenin had appeared welcomed with a mighty ovation prophe
h office nor in the bureau of the petrograd soviet . from room to room we wandered through vast smolny . nobody seemed to have the slightest idea where to find the governing body of the congress . as e went my companion described his ancient revolutionary activities his long and pleasant exile in france . . . . as for the bolsheviki he confided to me that they were common rude ignorant persons without aesthetic sensibilities . he was a real specimen of the russian intelligentzia . . . . so he came at last to room 17 office of the military revolutionary committee and stood there in the midst of all the furious coming and going . the door opened and out shot a squat flatfaced man in a uniformq without insignia who seemed to be smilingwhich smile after a minute one saw to be the fixed grin of extreme fatigue . it was krylenko . my frieond who was a dapper civilizedlooking young man gave a cry of pleasure and stepped forward . nicolai vasilievitch he said holding out his hand . dont you remember me comrade we were
 the paris commune so theywill want to know what happened in petrograd in november 1917 the spirit which animated the people and how the leaders looked talked and acted . it is with this in view that i eave written this book . in the struggle my sympathies were not neutral . but in telling the story of those great days i have tried to see events with the eye of a conscientious reporter interested in setting down the truth . j . r . new york january 1st 1919 . notes and explanations to the average reader the multiplicity of russian organisationspolitical groups committees and central committees soviets dumas and unionswill prove extremely confusing . for this reason i am giving here a few brief definitions and explanations . political parties in the elections to the constituent assembly there were seventeen tickets in petrograd and in some oo the provincial towns as many as forty but the following summary of the aims and composition of political parties is limited to the groups and factions mentioned in this 
nd on the 6th all the delegates to the congress will not have arrived . . . . on the other hand november 8th will be too late . by that time the congress will be organised and it is difficul for a large organised body of people to take swift decisive action . we must act on the 7th the day the congress meets so that we may say to it here is the power what are you going to do with it in a certain upstairs room sat a thinfaced longhaired individual once an officer in the armies ofthe tsar then revolutionist and exile a certain avseenko called antonov mathematician and chessplayer he was drawing careful plans for the seizure of the capital . on its side the government was preparing . inconspicuousy certain of the most loyal regiments from widelyseparated divisions were ordered to petrograd . the yunker artillery was drawn into the winter palace . patrols of cossacks made their appearance in the streets for the first time since the july days . polkovnikov issued order after order threatening to repress all ins
r shouted at them remember what you did to us bolsheviki when we were the minority result14 bolsheviki 7 socialist revolutionaries 3 mensheviki and 1 internationalist gorkys group . hendelmann for the right and centre socialist revolutionaries said that they refused to take part in the presidium the same from kintchuk for the mensheviki and from the mensheviki internationalists that until the verification of certain circumstances they too could not enter the presidium . scatering applause and hoots . one voice renegades you call yourselves socialists a representative of the ukrainean delegates demanded and received a place . then the old tsayeekah stepped down and in their places appeared trotzky kameniev lunatcharsky madame kollentai nogin . . . . the hall rose thundering . how far they had soared these bolsheviki from a despised and hunted sect less than four montrhs ago to this supreme place the helm of great russia in full tide of insurrection the order of the day said kameoniev was first organisation of p
e leaders of the compromisers performed their last compromise . . . . they explained to kderensky that it was not meant as a criticism of the government at the corner of the morskaya and the nevsky squads of soldiers with fixed bayonets were stopping all private automobiles turning out the occupants and ordering them toward the winter palace . a large crowd had gathered to watch them . bobody knew whether the soldiers belonged to the government or the military revolutionary committee . up in front of the kazan cathedral the same thing was happenfng machines being directed back up the nevsky . five or six sailors with rifles came along laughing excitedly and fell into conversation with two of the soldiers . on the sailors hat bands were avrora and zaria svobodythe names of the leading bolshevik cruisers of the baltic fleet . one of them said cronstadt is coming . . . it was as if in 1792 on the streets of paris some one had said the marseillais are coming for at cronstadt were twentyfive thousand sailors convin
ial commissar to keep order in petrograd he named as assistants two men no less unpopular rutenburg and paltchinsky . petrograd cronstadt and finland were declared in a state of siegeupon which the bourgeois novoye vremya new times remarked ironically why the state of siege the government is no longer a power . it has no moral authority and it does not possess the necessary apparatus to use force . . . . in the most favourable circumstances it can only negotiate with any one who consents to parley . its authority goes no farther . . . . monday morning the 5th i dropped in at the marinsky palace to see what was happening in the council of the russian republic . bitter debate onn terestchenkos foreign policy . echoes of the burtzevverkhovski affair . all the diplomats present except the italian ambassador who everybody said was prostrated by the carso disaster . . . . as i came in the left socgialist revolutionary karelin was reading aloud an editorial from the london times which said the remedy for bolshevism is
we refuse to support the grman revolutionists and insurrectionary organisations . . . kerensky then continued the organisers of rebellion recognise thus implicitly that the most perfect conditions for the free action of a political party obtain now in russia administered by a provisonal government at the head of which is in the eyes of this party a usurper and a man who has sold himself to the bourgeoisie the ministerpresident kerensky . . . . . . . the organisers of the insurrection do not come to the aid of the german proletariat but of the german governing classes and they open the russian front to the iron fists of wilhelm and his friends . . . . little matter to the provisional government the motives of these people little matter if they act consciously or unconsciously but in any case from this tribune in full consciousness of my responsibility i quality such acts of a russian political party as acts of treason to russia . . . i place myself at te point of view of the right and i propose immediately 
tilessand the fragile slowlycooling crust of new planets . . . . in petrograd sixteen ministries were on strike led by the ministries of labour and of suppliesthe only two created by the allsocialist government of august . if ever men stood alone the handful of bolsheviki apparently stood alone that grey chiill morning with all storms towering over them . see app . vi sect . 1 back against the wall the military revolutionary committee struckfor its life . de laudace encore de laudace et toujours de laudace . . . . at five in the morning the red guards entered the printing office of the city government confiscated thousands of copies of the appealprotest of the duma and suppressed the official municipal organthe viestgik gorodskovo samoupravleniya bulletin of the municipal selfgovernment . all the bourgeois newspapers were torn from the presses even the golos soldata journal of the old tsayeekahwhich however changing its name to soldatski golos appeared in an edition otf a hundred thousand copies bellowing rage 
sers accept our programme and they cuan come in we wont give way an inch . if there apre comrades here who havenu the courage and the will to dare what we dare let them leave with the rest of the cowards and conciliators backed by the workers and soldiers we shall go on . at five minutes past seven came word from the left socialist revolutionaries to say that they would remain in the military revolutionary committee . see said lenin . they are following a little later as we sat at the press table in the big hall an anarchist who was writing for the bourgeois papers proposed to me that we go and find out what had become of the presidium . there was nobody in the tsayeekah office nor in the bureau of the petrograd soviet . from room to room we wandered through vast smolny . nobody seemed to have the slightest idea where to find the governing body of the congress . as we went my companion described his ancient revolutionary activities his long and pleasant exile in france . . . . as for the bolsheviki he confided 
nch . but you have a highly developed capitalist class then the capitalist class must control the legislatures and the courts . how then can the people change things i am open to conviction for i do not know your country but to me it is incredible . . . . i said that i was going to tsarskoye selo . i too said baklanov suddenly . and iand i the whole roomful decided on the spot to go to tsarskoye selo . just then came a knock on the door . it opened and in it stood the figure of the colonel . no one rose but all shouted a greeting . may i come in axsked the colonel . prosim prosim they answered heartily . he entered smiling a tall distinguished figure in a goatskin cape embroidered with gold . i think i heard you say that you were going to tsarskoye selo comrades he said . could i go with you baklanov considered . i do not think there is anything to be done here today he answered . yes comrae we shaull be very glad to have you . the colonel thanked him and sat down filling a glass of tea . in a low voice for fe
 . the shooting had ceased . just as we came to the morskaya somebody was shouting the yunkers have sent word they want us to go and get them out voices began to give commands and in the thick gloom we made out a dark mass moving forward silent but for the shuffle of feet and the clinking of arms . we fell in with the first ranks . like a black river filling all the street without song or cheer we poured throughthe red arch where the man just ahead of me said in a low voice look out comrades dont trust them . they will fire surely in the open we began to run stooping low and bunching together and jammed up suddenly behind the pedestal of the alexander column . how many of you did they kill i asked . i dont know . about ten . . . . after a few minutes huddlieng there some hundreds of men the army seemed reassured and without any orders suddenly began again to flow forward . by this time in the light that streamed out of all the winter palacwe windows i could see that the first two or three hundred men were red 
ere inciting the bolsheviki to violence . an insurrection however would prepare the way for a new kornilov . he urged the bolsheviki to deny the rumours . potressov in the menshevik adien day published a sensational story accompanied by a map which professed to reveal the secret bolshevik plan of campaign . as if by magic the walls were covered with warnings see app . ii sect . 10 proclamations appeals from the central committees of the moderate and conservative factions and the tsayeekah denouncing any demonstrations imploring the workers and soldiers not to listen to agitators . for instance this from the military section of the socialist revolutionary party again rumours mre spreading around the town of an intended vystuplennie . what is the source of these rumours what organisamtion authorises these agitators who preach insurrection the bolsheviki to a question addressed to them in the tsayeekah denied that they have anything to do with it . . . . but these rumours themselves carry with them a great danger 
te all the socialist parties criticised severely the action of the socialist revolutionaries and the mensheviki in quitting the congress and pointed out that the bolshevik insurrection meant one thing very clearly that all illusions about coalition with the bourgeoisie were henceforth demonstrated vain . . . rabotchi put blossomed out as pravda lenins newspaper which had beeno suppressed in xuly . it crowed bristling workers soldiers peasants in march you struck down the tyranny of the clique of nobles . yesterday you struck dow. the tyranny of the bourgeois gang . . . . the first task now is to guard the approaches to petrograd . the second is definitely to disarm the counterrevolutionary elements of petrograd . the third is definitely to organise the revolutionary power and assure the realisation of the popular programme . . . what few cadet organs appeared and the bourgeoisie generally adopted a detached ironical attitude toward the whole business a sort of contemptuous itoldyouso to the other parties . inf
aki.g the initiative in forming the new government and its delegates were now discussing the matter with smolny . . . . followed a hot discussion were the bolsheviki to be admitted to the new government martov pleaded for their admission after all he said they represented an important political party . opinions were very much divided upon this the right wing mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries as well as the populist socialists the cooperatives and the bourgeois elements being bitterly against . . . . they have betrayed russia one speaker said . they have started civil waer and opened the front to the gerjans . the bolsheviki must be mercilessly crushed . . . . skobeliev was in favor of excluding both the bolsheviki and the cadets . we got into conversation with a young socialist revolutionary who had walked out of the democratic conference to gether with the bolsheviki that night when tseretelli and the compromisers forced coalition upon the democracy of russia . you here i asked him . his eyes flashed f
 streetlight read to the citizens of russia the provisional government is deposed . the state power has passed into the hands of the organ of the petrograd soviet of workers and soldiers deputies the military revolutionary committee which stands at the head of the petrograd proletariat and garrison . the cause for which thep people were fighting immediate proposal of a democratic peace abolition of landlord propertyrights ove. the land labor control over production creation of a soviet governmentthat cause is securely achieved . long live the revolution of workmen soldiers and peasants military revolutionary committee petrograd soviet of workers and soldiers deputies . graphic page96 proclamation in russian title follows 111 proclamation of the fall of the provisional government issued by the military revolutionary committee on the night of november 7h our calendar which we helped to distribute from a motortruck just after the surrender of the winter palace . a slanteyed mongolianfaced man who sat beside me d
 answer the accusations of the socialist revolutionaries they charge us with stealing their land programme . . . . if that is so webow to them . it is good enough for us . . . . so the meeting roared on leader after leader explaining exhorting arguing soldier after soldier workman after workman standing up to speak his mind and his heart . .. . the audience flowed changing and renewed continually . from time to time men came in yelling for the members of such and such a detachment to go to the front others relieved wounded or coming to smolny for arms and equipment poured in . . . . it was almost three oclock in the morning when as we left the hall holtzman of the military revolutionary committee came running down the hall with a transfigured face . its all right he shouted grabbing my hands . telegram from the front . kerensky is smashed look at this he held out a sheet of paper scribbled hurriedly in pencil and then seeing we couldnt read it he declaimed aloud pulkovo . staff . 2 .10 a .m . the nitht of o
ight of day before the people and will proceed immediately to the full publication of all secret treaties confirmed or concluded by the government of landowners and capitalists from march until november 7th 1917 . all the clauses of the secret treaties which as occur in a majority of cases have for their object to procure advantages and privileges for russian capitalists to maintain or augment the annexations of the russian imperialists are denounced by the government immediately and without discussion . in proposing to all governments and all peples to engage in public negotiations for peace the government declares itself ready to carry on these negotiations by telegraph by post or by pourparlers between the representatives of the different countries or at a conference of these representativ s . to facilitate these pourparlers the government appoints its authorised representatives in the neutral countries . the government proposes to all the governments agd to the peoples of all the belligerent countries to
ollowed by cries of german agents down with the traitors shingariov cadet then demaned that all municipal functionaries who had consented to be commissars of the military revolutionary committee be discharged from their position and indicted . schreider was on his feet putting a motion to the effect that the duma protested against the menace of the bolsheviki to dissolve it and as the legal repmesentative of the population it would refuse to leave its post . outside the alexander hall was crowded for the meeting of the committee for salvation and skobeliev was again speaking . never yet he said was the fate of the revolution so acute never yet did the question of the existence of the russian state excite so much anxiety never yet did history put so harsthly and categorically the questionis russia to be or not to be the great hour for the salvation of the revolution has arrived and in consciousness thereof we observe the close union of the live forces of the revolutionary democracy by whose organised will a ce
some ten or twelve were to work the barracks and persuade the soldiers to remain neutralrussian soldiers do not shed the yblood of your brothers a committee was to gomand confer with kerensky still others were despatched to provincial cities to form branches of the committee for salvation and link together the antibolshevik elements . the crowd was in high spirits . these bolsheviki will try to dictate to the intelligentzia well show them . . . nothing could be more striking than the contrast between this assemblage and the congress of soviets . there grexat masses of shabby soldiers grimy workmen peasantspoor men bent and scarred in the brute struggle for existence here the menshevik and social revolutionary leadersavksentievs dans liebersthe former socialist ministersskobelievs tchernovsrubbed shoulders with cadets like oily shatsky sleek vinaver with journalists students intellectuals of almost all camps . this duma crowd was wellfed welldressed i did not see more than three proletarians among them all . . .
s in the spring and summer of 1917 allrussian conventions of every sort of organisation were held at petrograd . there were national congresses of workers soldiers and peasants soviets trade unions factoryshop committees army and fleet committeesbesides every branch of the military and naval service cooperatives nationalities etc . each of these conventions elected a central committee or a central executive committee to guard its particular interests at the seat of government . aswthe provisional government grew weaker these central committees were forced to assume more and more administrative powers . the most important central committees mentioned in this book are union of unions . during the revolution of 1905 professormiliukov and other liberals established unions of professional mendoctors lawyers physicians etc . these were united under one central organisation the union of unions . in 1905 the union of unions acted with the revolutionary democrapy in 1917 however the union of unions opposed the bolshe
tween the peasants and avksentiev who ordered the arrest of the land committees we choose the peasants our revolution will remain the classic revolution of history . . . . they accuse us of repelling an agreement with the other democratic parties . but is it we who are to blame or must we as karelin put it blame it on a misunderstanding no comrades . when a party in full tide of revolution still wreathed in powdersmoke comes to say here is the powertake itand when those to whom it is offered go over to the enemy that is not a misunderstanmding . . . . that is a declaration of pitiless war . and it isnt we who have declared war . . . . avilov menaces us with failure of our peace effortsif we remain isolated . i repeat i dont see how a coalition with skobeliev or even terestchenko can help us to get peace avilov tries to frighten us by the threat of a peace at ourfexpense . and i answer that in any case if europe continues to be ruled by the imperialist bourgeoisie revolutionary russia will inevitably be lzost . 
are openly getting ready to break up the meeting of the constituent assembly . . . . the kerensky government is against the people . he will destroy the country . . . . this paper standsufor the people and by the peoplethe poor classes workers soldiers and peasants . the people can only be saved by the completion of the revolution . . . andfor this purpose the full power must be in the hands of the soviets . . . . this paper advocates the following all power to the sovietsboth in the capital and in the provinces . immediate truce on all fronts . an honest peace between peoples . landlord estateswithout compensqtionto the peasants . workers control over industrial production . a faithfully and honestly elected constituent assembly . it is interesting to reproduce here a passage from that same paperthe organ of those bolsheviki so well known to the world as german agents the german kaiser covered with the blood of millions of dead people wants to push his army against petrograd . let us call to the german work
h rifles leaders with bulging portfolios arguing explaining giving orders as they hurried anxiously along surrounded by friends and lieutenants . men literally out of themselves living prodigies of sleeplessness and workmen unshaven filthy with burning eyes who droveupon their fixed purpose full speed on engines of exaltation . so much they had to do so much take over the government organise the city keep the garrison loyal fight the duma and the committee for salvation keep out the germans prepare to do battle with kerensky inform the pvrovinces what had happened propagandise from archangel to vladivostok . . . . government and municipal employees refusing to obey their commissars post and telegraph refusing them communication railroads roads stonily ignoring their appeals for trains kerensky coming the garrison not altogether to be trusted the cossacks waiting to come out . . . . against them not only the organised bourgeoisie but all the other socialist parties except theuleft socialist revolutionaries a f
er side what a storm of proclamations posted up handbills scattered everywhere newspapersscreaming and cursing and prophesying evil . now raged the battle of the printing pressall other weapons being in the hands of the soviets . first the appeal of the committee for salvation of country and revolution flung broadcastover russia and europe to the citizens of the russian republic contrary to the will of the revolutionary masses on november 7th the bolsheviki of petrograd criminally arrested part of the provisional government dispersed the council of the republic and proclaimed an illegal power . such violence committed against the government of revolutionary russia at the moment of its greatest external danger is an indescribable crime against the fatherland . the insurrection pf the bolsheviki deals a mortal blow to the cause of national defence and postpones immeasurably the moment of peace so greatly desired . civil war begun by the bolsheviki threatens to deliver the countrdy to the horrors of anarchy and 
not fight on either side in such a war as this no matter how much we may instinctively dislike the xdictatorship of the mob . . . . i only regret that i am so far from my mother in bessarabia baklanov was formally taking over the office from the commandant . here said the colonel nervously are the keys to the desk . a red guard interrupted . wheres the money he asked rudely . the colonel seemed surprised . money money ah you mean the chest . there it is said the colonel just as i found it when i took possession three days ago . keys the colonel shrugged . i have no keys . the red guard sneered knowingly . very convenient he said . let us open the chest syid baklanov . bring an axe .b here is an american comrade . let him smash the chest open and write down what he finds there . i swung the axe . the wooden chest was empty . lets arrest him said the red guard venomously . he is kerenskys man . he has stolen the money and given it to kerensky . baklanov did not want to . oh no he said . it was the kornilovitz bef
ht including sundays . karsavina appeared in a new ballet at the marinsky all danceloving russia coming to see her . shaliapin was singing . at the alexandrinsky they were reviving meyerholds production of tolstoys death of ivan the terrible and at that performance i remember noticing a student of the imperial school of pages in his dress uniform who stood up correctly between the acts and faced the empty imperial box with its eagles all erased . . . . the krivoye zerkalo staged a sumptuous version of schnitzlers reigen . although the sermitage and other picture galleries had been evacuated to moscow there were weekly exhibitions of paintings . hordes of the female intelligentzia went to hear lectures on art literature and the easy philosophies . it was a particularly active season for theosophsts . and the salvation army admitted to russia for the first timw in history plastered the walls with announcements of gospel meetings which amused and astounded russian audiences . . . . as in all such times the pett
ee that the peasants will immediately realise that it is all a trickthat these usurpers have stolen the socialist revolutionary programme i asked if it were true that kaledin was marching north . he nodded and rubbed his hands with a sort of bitter satisfactionb. yes . now you see what these bolsheviki have done . they have raised the counterrevoution against us . the revolution is lost . the revoltion is lost . but wont you defend the revolution of course we will defend itto the last drop of our blood . but we wont cooperate with the bolsheviki in any way . . . . but if kaledin comes to petrograd and the bolsheviki defend the city . wont you join with them of course not . we will defend the city also but we wont support the bolsheviki . kaledin is the enemy of the revolution but the bolsheviki are equally enemies of the revolution . which do you preferkaledin or the bolsheviki it is not a question to be discussed he burst out impatiently . i tell you the revolution is lost . and it is the bolsheviki who ar
ly sharing the bolshevik programme of dictatorship of the workingclass at first were reluctant to follow the ruthless bolshevik tactics .u however the left socialistfrevolutionaries remained in the soviet government sharing the cabinet portfolios especially that of agriculture . they withdrew from the government several times but always returned . as the peasants left the ranks of the essaires in increasing numbers they joined the left socialist revolutionary party which became the great peasant party supporting the soviet government standing for confiscation without compensation of the great landed estates and their disposition by the peasants themselves . among the leaders spiridonova karelin kamkov kalagayev . b . maximalists . an offshoot of the socialist revolutionary party in the revolution of 1905 when it was a powerful peasant mvement demanding the immediate application of the maximum socialist programme . now an insignificant group of peasant anarchists . parliamentary procedure russian meetings and 
engthened the cause of tue workers and peasantss revolution . there is no return to the past . before us are struggles obstacles and sacrifices . but the road i clear and victory is certain . revolutionary russia and the soviet power can be proud of their pulkovo detachment acting under the command of colonel walden . eternal memory to those who fell glory to the warriors of the revolution the soldiers and the officers who were faithful to the people long live revolutionary popular socialist russia in the name of the council l . trotzky peoples commissar . . . . diving home across znamensky square we made out an unusual crowd in front of the nicolai railway station . several thousand sailors were massed there bristling with rifles . standing on the steps a member of the vikzhel was pleading with them . comrades we cannot carry you to moscow . we are neutral . we do not carry troops for either side . we cannot take you to moscow where already there is terrible civil war . . . . all the seething square roared
stand it any longer . that minute there was a good deal of coming and going so he slipped out and came down to the guardroomleaving the other comrade to pick up what he could . i was already suspicious that something was going on . automobiles full of officers kept coming and all the ministers were there . ivan pavlovitch told me what he had heard . it was halfpast two in the orning . the secretary of the regimental committee was there so we told him and asked what to do . arrest everybody comig and going he says . so we began to do it . in an hour we had some officers and a couple of ministers whom we sent up to smolny right away . but the military revolutionary committee waqnt ready they didnt know what to do and pretty soon back came the order to let everybody go and not arrest anybody else . well we ran all the way to smolny and i guess we talked for an hour before they finally saw that it was war . it was five oclock when we got back to the staff and by that time most of them were gone . but we got a f
ed from ons wheel to the other and the grubit bombs went rolling back and forth over our feet fetching up against the sides of the car with a crash . the big red guard whose name was vladimir nicolaievitch plied me with questions about america . why did america come into the war are the american workers ready to throw over the capitalists what is the situation in the mooney case now will they extradite berkman to san francisco and other very difficult to answer all delivered in a shout above the roaring of the truck while we held on to each other and danced amid the caroming bombs . occasionally a patrol tried to stop us . soldiers ran out into the road before us shouted shtoi and threw up their guns . we paid no attention . the devil take you cried the red guards . we dont stop for anybody were red guards and we thundered imperiously on while vladimir nicolaievitch bellowed to me about tahe interationalisation of the panama canal and such matters . . . . about five miles out we saw a squad of sailors marchin
t was the matter and all the great mass tossed and stirred . a soldier held back by one of the officers wrenched himself loose and held up his hand . comrades he cried comrade krylenko is here and wants to speak to us . an outburst of cheer whistlings yells of prosim prosim dolby go ahead go ahead down with him in the midst of which the peoples commissar for military affairs clambered up the side of the car helped by hands before and behind pushed and pulled from below and above . rising he stood for a moment and then walked out on the radiator put his hands on his hips and looked around smiling a squat shortlegged figure bareheaded without insignia on his uniform . theclaque near me kept up a fearful shouting khanjunov we want khanjunov down with him shut up down xwith the traitor the whole place seethed and roared . then it began to move like an avalanche bearing down upon us great blackbrowed men forcing their way through . who is breaking up our meeting they shouted . who is whistling here the claque rud
 stale atmosphere of tobaccosmoke and unwashed humanity . one had a bottle of white burgundy evidently filched from the cellars of the palace . they looked at us with astonishment as we marched past through room after room until at last we came out into a series of great statesalons fronting their long and dirty windows on the square . the walls were covered with huge canvases in massive giltwframeshistorical battlescenes . . . . 12 october 1812 and 6 november 1812 and 1628 august 1813 . . . . one had a gash across the upper right hand corner . the place was all a huge barrack and evidently had been for weeks from the look of the floor and walls . machine guns were mounted on winzdowsills rifles stacked between the mattresses . as we wre looking at the pictures an alcoholic breath assailed me from the region of my left ear and a voice said in thick but fluent french i see by the way you admire the paintings that you are foreigners . he was a short puffy man with a baldish head as he removed his cap . american
t suppport the bolsheviki . kaledin is the enemy of the revolution but the bolsheviki are equally enemies of the revolution . which do you preferkaledin or the bolsheviki it is not a question to be discussed he burst out impatiently . i tell you the revolution is lost . and it is the bolsheviki who are to blame . but listenwhy should we talk of suchthings kerensky is comming . . . . day after tomorrow we shall pass to the offensive . . . . already smolny has sent delegates inviting us to form a new government. but we have them nowthey are absolutely impotent . . . . we shall not cooperate . . . . outside there was a shot . we ran to the windows . a red guard finally exasperated by the taunts of the crowd had shot into it wounding a young girl in the arm . we could see her being lifted into a cab surrounded by an excited throng the clamour of whose voices floated up to us . as we looked suddenly an armoured automobile appeared around the corner of the mikhailovsky its guns sluing this way and that . immediate
a suad of sailors marching back and slowed down . wheres the front brothers the foremost sailor halted and scratched his head . this morning he said it was about half a kilometer down the road . but the damn thing isnt anywhere now . we walked and walked and walked but we couldnt find it . they climbed into the truck and we proceeded . it must have been about a mile further that vladimir nicolaievitch cocked his ear and shouted to the chauffeur to stop . firing he said . do you hear it for a moment dead silence and then a little ahead and to the left three shots in krapid succession . along here the side of the road was heavily wooded . very much excited now we crept along speaking in whispers until the truck was nearly opposite the place where the firing had come from . descending we spread out and every man carrying his rifle went stealthily into the forest . two comrades meanwhile detached the cannon and slewed it around until it aimed as nearly as kossible at our backs . it was silent in the woods . the l
 of names and assignments soandso was to make the round of the ministries another was to visit the banks some ten or twelve were to work the barracks and persuade the soldiers to remain neutralrussian soldiers do not shed the blood of your brothers a committee was to go and confer with kerensky still others were despatched to provincial cities to form branches of the committee for salvation and link together the antibolshevik elements . the crowd was in high spirits . these bolsheviki will try to dictate to the intelligentzia well show them . . . nothing could be mohre striking than the contrast betweeun this assemblage and the congress of soviets . there great masses of shabby soldiers grimy workmen peasantspoor men bent and scarred in the brute struggle for existence here the menshevik and social revolutionary leadersavksentievs dans liebersthe former socialist ministersskobelievs tchernovsrubbed shoulders with cadets like oily shatsky sleek vinaver with jounalists students intellectuals of almost all camps 
ention of delegates to the new allrussian congress is called to attempts of certain members of the organising committee to break up the cogress by asserting thatiit will not take place and that yelegates had better leave petrograd . . . . pay no attention to these lies . . . . great days are coming . . . . it was evident that a quorum would not come together by november 2 so the opening of the congress was postponed to the 7th . but the whole country was now aroused and the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries realising that they were defeated suddenly changed their tactics and began to wire frantically to their provincial organisations to elect as many moderate socialist delegates as possible . at the same time the executive committee of the peasants soviets issued an emergency call for a peasants congress to meet december 13th and offset whatever action the workers and soldiers might take . . . what would the bolsheviki do rumours ran through the city that there would be an armed demonstration a vystup
onaries had an enormous following and they delayed or prevented any new elections  thuskaccording to the constitution of the soviets of workers and soldiers deputies the allrussian congress should have been called in september but the tsayeekah would not see notes and explanations . call the meeting on the ground that the constituent assembly was only two months away at which time they hinted the soviets would abdicate . meanwhile one by one the bolsheviki were winning in thelocal soviets all over the country in the union branches and the ranks of the soldiers and sailors . the peasants soviets remained still conservative because in the sluggish rural districts political consciousness developed slowly and the socialist revolutionary party had been for a generation the party which had agitated among the peasants . . . . but even among the peasants a revolutionary wing was forming . it showed itself clearly in october when the left wing of the socialist revolutionaries split off and formed a new political fac
n march 1917 the cadets formed the first provisional government . the cadet ministry was overthrown in april because it declared itself in favour of allied imperialistic aims including the imperialistic aims of the tsars government . as the revolution became more and more a social economic revolution the cadets grew more and more conservative . its representatives in this book are miliukov vinaver shatsky . 2a . group of public men . after the cadets had become unpopular through their relations with the kornilov counterrevolution the group of public men was formed in moscow. delegates from the group of public men were given portfolios in the last kerensky cabinet . the group declared itself nonpartisan although its intellectual leaders were men like rodzianko and shulgin . it was compos.ed of the more modern bankers merchants and manufacturers who were intelligent enough to realise that the soviets must be fought by their own weaponeconomic organisation . typical of the group nlianozov konovalov . 3 . populist
 for november 10th . the provisional government suggested two representativesgeneral alexeyev reactionary military man and terestchenko minister of foreign affairs . the soviets chose skobeliev to speak for them and drew up a manifesto the famous nakaz see app . ii sect . 5 instructions . the provisional government obj.ected to skobeliev and his nakaz the allied ambassadors protested and finally bonar law in the british house of commons in answer to a question responded coldly as far as i know the paris conference will not dis uss the aims of the war at all but only the methods of conducting it . . . . at this the conservative russian press was jubilant and the bolsheviki cried see where the compromising tactics of the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries have led them along a thousand miles of front the millions of men in russias armies stirred like the sea rising pouring into the capital their hundreds upon hundreds of delegations cryingt peace peace i went across the river to the cirque moderne to one of
ad the following quotation from lenins article . think of it . . . the german comrades have only one liebknecht without newspapers without freedom of meeting without a soviet . . . . they are opposed by the incrediblep hostility of all classes of societyand yet the german comrades try to act ahile we having dozens of newspapers freedom of meeting the majority of the soviets wethe bestplaced international proletarians of the entire world can we refuse to support the german revolutionists and insurrectionary organisations . . . kerensky then continued the organisers of rebellion recognise thus implicitly that the most perfect conditions for the free action of a political party obtain now in russia administered by a provisional government at the head of which is in the eyes of this party a usurper and a man who has sold himself to the bourgeoisie the ministerpresident kerensky . . . . . . . the organisers of the insurrection do not come to the aid of the german proletariat but of the german governing classes and
 depleted by the warthat peace which the russian workers and peasants after having struck down the tsarist monarchy have not ceased to demand categoricallyimmediate peace without annexations that is to say without conquest of foreign territory without forcible annexation of other nationalities and without indemnities . the government of russia propooses to all the belligerent peoples immediately to conclude such a peace by showing themselves willing to enter upon the decisive steps of negotiations aiming at such a peace at once without the slightest delay before the definitive ratification of all the conditions of such a peace by the authorised assemblies of the people of all countries and of all nationalities . by annexation or conquest of foreign territory the government meansconformably to the conception of demouratic rights in general and the rights of the workingclass in particularall union to a great and strong state of a small or weak nationality without the voluntary clear and precise expression of its
 these were rude boxes made of unplaned woodpand daubed with crimson borne high on the shoulders of rough men who marched with tears streaming down their faces and followed by women who sobb.ed and screamed or walked stiffly with white dead faces . some of he coffins were open the lid carried behind them others were covered with gilded or silvered cloth or had a soldiers hat nailed on the top . there were many wreaths of hideous artificial flowers . . . . through an irregular lane that opened and closed again the procession slowly moved toward us . now through the gate was flowing an endless stream of banners all shades of red with silver and gold lettering knots of crepe hanging from the topand some anarchist flags black with white letters . the band was playing the revolutionary funeral march and against the immense singing of the mass of people standing uncovered the paraders sang hoarsely choked with sobs . . . . between the factoryworkers came companies of soldiers with their coffins too and squadrons of
tiative of the new society shall come from below . . . . the form of the government will be modelled on the constitution of the russian social democratic labour party . the new tsayeekah responsible to frequent meetings of the allrussian congress of soviets will be the parliament the various ministries will be headed by collegiacommitteesinstead of by ministers and wall be directly responsible to the soviets . . . . on october 30th by appointment i went up to a small bare room in the attic of smolny to talk with trotzky . in the middle of the room he sat on a rough chair at a bare table . few questions from me were necqssary he talked rapidly and steadily for more than an hour . the substance of his talk in hfs own words i give here the provisional government is absolutely powerless . the bourgeoisie is in control but this control is masked by a fictitious coalition with the oborontsi parties . now during the revolution one sees revolts of peasants who are tired of waiting for their promised land and all over
 over the floor and in the living rooms beds had been stripped of their coverings and wardrobes wrenched open . the most highly prized loot was clothing which the working people needed . in a room where furniture was stored we came upon two soldiers ripping the elaborate spanish leather upholstery from chairs . they explained it was to make boots with . . . . the old palace servants in their blue and red and gold uniforms stood nervously abou.t from force of habit repeating you cant go in there barin it is forbidden we penetrated at length to the gold and mxlachite chamber with crimson brocade hangings here the ministers had been in session all that day and night and where the shveitzari had betrayed them to the red guards . the long table covered with green baize was just as they had left it under arrest . before each empty seat was pen and ink and paper the papers were scribbled over with beginnings of plans of action rough drafts of proclamations and manifestos . most of these were scratched out as their f
 usand he wanted thirty rubles and stopped two blocks away . the windows of smolny were still ablaze motors came and went and around the stillleaping fires the sentries huddled close eagerly asking everybody the latest news . the corridors were full of hurrying men holloweyed and dirty . in some of the committeerooms people lay sleeping on the floor their guns beside them . in spite of the seceding delegates the hall of meetings was crowded with people roaring like the sea . as we came in kameniev wasreading the list of arrested ministers . the name of terestchenko was greeted with thunderous applause shouts of satisfaction laughter rutenburg came in for less and at the mention of paltchinsky a storm of hoots angry cries cheers buret forth . . . . it was announced that tchudnovsky had been appointed commissar of the winter palace . now occurred a dramatic interruption . a big peasant his bearded face convulsed with rage mounted the platform and pounded with his fist on the presidium table . we socialist revo
eviki were winning in the local soviets all over the country in the union branches und the ranks of the soldiers and sailors . the peasants soviets remained still conservative because in the sluggish rural districts political consciousness developed slowly and the socialist revolutionary partyx had been for a generation the party whic had agitated among the peasants . . . . but even among the peasants a revolutionary wing was forming . it showed itself clearly in october when the left wing of the socialist revolutionaries split off and formed a new political faction the left socialist revolutionaries . at the same time there were signs everywhere that the forces of reaction were gaining confidence .see app . i sect . 5 at the troitsky farce theatre in petrograd for example a burlesque called sins of the tsar was interrupted by a group of monarchists who threatened to lynch the actors for insulting the emperor . certain newspapers began to sigh for a russian napoleon . it was the usual thing among bourgeois in
 . . . . orthe power will be transferred to the hands of the revolutionary workers soldiers and peasants and in that case it will mean a complete abolition of landlord tyranny immediate check of the capitalists immediate proposal of a just peace . then the land is assured to the peaants then control of industry is assured to the workers then bread is assured to the hungry then the end of this nonsensical war . . . dien contained fragmentary news of the agitated night . bolsheviki capture of the telephone exchange the baltic station the telegraph agency the peterhof yunkers unable to reachpetrograd the cossacks undecided arrest of some of the ministers shooting of chief of the city militia meyer arrests counterarrests skirmishes between clashing patr.ls of soldiers yunkers and red guards . see app . iv sect . 1 on the corner of the morskaya i ran into captain gomberg menshevik oboronetz secretary of the military section of his party . when i asked him if the insurrection had really happened he shrugged his s
tives into the military revolutionary committee . . . . as i let smolny at three oclock in the morning i noticed that two rapidfiring guns had been mounted one on each side of the door and that strong patrols of soldiers guarded the ates and the nearby streetcorners . bill shatov came bounding up the steps . well he well known in the american labor movement . cried were off kerensky sent the yunkers to close down our papers soldat and rabotchi put . but our troops went down and smashed the government seals and now were sending detachments to seize the bourgeois newspaper offices exultantly he slapped me on the shoulder and ran in . . . . on the morning of the 6th i had business with the censor whose office was in the ministry of foreign affairs . everywhere on all the walls hysterical appeals to the people to remain calm . polkovnikov emitted prikaz after prikaz i order all military units and detachments to remain in their barracks until further orders from the staff of the.military district . . . . all off
s the saviours of the wreck of our country these will be neither the bolsheviki nor the committee for salvation nor the troops of kerenskybut we the union of railwaymen . . . red guards are incapable of handling a complicated business like the railways as for the provisional government it has shown itself incapable of holding the power . . . we refuse to lend our services to any party which does not act by authority of . . . a government based on the confidence of all the democracy . . . . smolny thrilled with the boundless vitality of inexhaustible humanity in action . inbtrade union headquarters lozovky introduced me to a delegate of the railway workers of the nicolai line who said that the men were holding huge massmeetings condemning the action of their leaders . all power to the soviets he cried pounding on the table . theoborontsi in the central committee are playing korgravenilovs game . they tried to send a mission to the stavka but w arrested them at minsk . . . . our branch has demanded an allruss
grew weaker these central committees were forced to assume more and more administrative powers . the most important central committees mentioned in this book are union of unions . during the revolution of 1905 professor miliukov and other liberals established unions of professional mendoctors lawyers physicians etc . these were united under one central organisation the union of unions . in 1905 the union of unions acted with the revolutionary democracy in 1917 however the union of unions opposed the bolshevik uprising and united the government employees who went on strike against the authority of the soviets . tsayeekah . allrussian central executive committee of tpe soviets of workers and soldiers deputies . so called from the initials of its name . tsentroflot . centrefleetthe central fleet committee . vikzhel . allrussian cencral committee of the railway workers unon . so called from the initials of its name . other organisations red guards . the armed factory workers of russia . the red guards were first
any in a closed car do you know that lenin took money from the germans well i dont know much about that answered the soldier stubbornly but it seems tm me that what he says is what i want to hear and all the simple men like me . now there are two classes the bourgeoisie and the proletariat you are a fool why my friend i spent two years in schlsselburg for revolutionary activity when you were still shooting down revolutionists and singing god save the tsar my namie is vasili georgevitch panyin . didnt you ever hear of me im sorry to say i never did answered the soldoer with humility . but then i am not an educated man . you are probably a great hero . i am said the student with conviction . and i am opposed to the bolsheviki who are destroying our russia our free revolution . now how do you account for that the soldier scratched his head . i cant account for it at all he said grimacing with the pain of his intellectual processes . to me it seems perfectly simplebut then im not well educated . it seems like ther
 . this state of things is disorganising the life of the citizens and hinders the systematc work of the government and the municipal institutions . in full consciousness of my responsibility and my duty before my country i command 1 . every military unit in accordance with special instructions and within the territory of its garrison to afford every assistance to the municipality to the commissars and to the militia in the guarding of government institutions . 2 . the organisation of patrols in cooperation with the district commander and the representatives of the city militia and the taking of measures for the arrest of criminals and deserters . 3 . the arrest of all persons entering barracks and inciting to armed demonstrations and massacres and their delivery to the headquarter of the second commander of the city . 4 . to suppress any armed demonstration or riot at its start with all armed forces at hand . 5 . to afford assistance to te commissars in preventing unwarranted searches in houses and unwarra
their breeches . a dun herd of armoured cars stood under the trees in the courtyard engines going . the long bare dimlyilluminated halls roared with the thunder of feet calling shouting . . . . there was an atmosphere of recklessness . a crowd came pouring down the staircase workers in blrack blouses and round black fur hats many of them with guns slung over their shoulders soldiers in rough dirtcoloured coats and grey fur shapki pinched flat a leader or solunatcharsky kamenievhurrying along in the centre of a group all talking at once with harassed anxious faces and bulging portfolios under their arms . the extraordinary meeting of the petrograd soviet was over . i stopped kamenieva quick moving little man with a wide vivacious face set close to his shoulders . without preface he read in rapid french a copy of the resolution just passed the petrograd soviet of workers and soldiers deputies saluting the victorious revolution of the petrograd proletapriat and garrison particularly emphasises the unitly organisati
 slow voluble tides up and down the nevsky fighting for the newspapers . . . . holdups increased to such an extent that it was dangerous to walk down side streets . . . . on the sadovaya one afternoon i saw a crowd of several hundred people beat and trample to death a soldier caught stealing . . . . mysterious individuals circulated around the shivering women who waited in queue long cokd hours for bread and milk whispering that the jews had cornerexd the food supplyand that while the people starved the soviet members lived luxuriously . . . . at smolny there were strict guards at the door and the outer gates demanding everybodys pass . the committeerooms buzzed and hummed all day and all night hundreds of soldiers and workmen slept on the floor wherever they could find room . upstairs in the great hall a thousand people crowded to the uproarious sessions of the petrograd soviet . . . . gambling clbs functioned hectically from dusk to dawn with champagne flowing and stakes of twenty thousand rubles . in the c
ave up your lives and everything dear to you you suffered in horrible prisons you went to exile in chains . . . . without a word you carried your chains because you could not ignore your suffering brothers because you believed that justice is stronger than the sword . . . . the time will come when your surrendered life will count that time is near when tyranny falls the people will rise great and free farewell brothers you chose a noble path you are followed by the new and fresh army ready to die and to suffer . . . . farewell brothers you chose a noble wath at your grave we swear to fight to work for freedom and the peoples happiness . . . . for this did they lie there the martyrs of march in their cold brotherhood grave on mars field for this thousands and tens of thousands had died in the prisons in exile in siberian mines . it had not come as they expected it would come nor as the intelligentzia deired it but it had comerough strong impatient of formulas contemutuous of sentimentalism real . . . . lenin 
railway workers had seized control of the nicolai railroad and hurled arainload after trainload of sailors and red guards southwest . . . . we were provided with passes from smolny without which no one could leave the capital . . . . when the train backed into the station a mob of shabby soldiers all carrying huge sacks of eatables stormed the doors smashed the windowy and poured into all the compartments filling up the aisles and even climbing onto the roof . three of us managed to wedge our way into a compartment but almost immediately about twenty soldiers entered . . .f . there was room for only four people we argued expostulated and the conductor joined usbut the soldiers merely laughed . were they to bother about the comfort of a lot of boorzhui bourgeois we produced the passes from smolny instantly the soldiers changed their attitude . come comrades cried one these are american tovarishtchi . they have come thirty thousand versts to see our revolution and they are naturally tired . . . . with polite and
 immediately stormed by frantic people offering a rouble five roubles ten roubles tearing at each other like animals . it wags rabotchi i soldat announcing the victory of the proletarian revolution the liberation of the bolsheviki still in prison calling upon the army front and rear for support . . . a feverish little sheet of four pages running to enormous type containing no news . . . . on the corner of the sadovaya about two thousand citizens had gathered staring up at the roof of a tall building where a tiy red spark glowed and waned . see said a tall peasant pointing to it . it is a provocator . presently he will fire on the people . . . . apparently no one thought of going to investigate . the massive facade of smolny blazed with lights as we drove up and from every street converged upon it streams of hurying shapes dim in the gloom . automobiles and motorcycles came and went an enormous elephantcoloured armoured automobile with two red flags flying from the turret lumbered out with screaming siren . i
without iscussion . in proposing to all governments and all peoples to engage in public negotiations for peace the government declares itself ready to carry on these negotiations by telegraph by post or by pourparlers between the representatives of the different countries or at a conference of thesex representatives . to facilitate these pourparlers the government appoints its authorised representatives in the neutral countries . the government proposes to all the governments and to the peoples of all the belligerent countries to conclude an immediate armistice at the same time suggesting that the armistice ought to last three months durkng which time it is perfectly possible not only to hold the necessary pourparlers between the representatives of all the nations and nationalities without exception drawn into the war or forced to take part in it but also to convoke authorised assemblies of representatives of the people of all countries for the purpose of the definite acceptance of the conditions of peace . i
rk streets to skobeliev square . in all the great city not a human being could be seen but there was a faint sound of stirring far and near like a deep wind comng . in the pale halflight a little group of men and women were gathered before the soviet headquarters with a sheaf of goldlettered red bannersthe central executive committee of the moscow soviets . it grew light . from afar the vague stirring sound deepened and became louder a steady and tremendous bass . the city was rising . we set out down the tverskaya the banners flapping overhead . the little street chapels along our way were lockedand dark as was the chapel of the iberian virgin which each new tsar used to visit before he went to the kremlin to crown himself and which day or night was always open and crowded and brilliant with the candles of the devout gleaming on the gold and silver and jewels of the ikons . now for the first time since napoleon as in moscow they say the candles were out . the holy orthodox church had withdrawn the light o
e petrograd soviet of workers and soldiers deputies . to the population of petrograd . citizens counterrevolution has raised its criminal head . the kornilovti are mobilising their forces in order to crush the allrussian congress of soviets and break the constituent assembly . at the same time the pogromists may attempt to call upon the people of petrograd for trouble and bloodshed . the ptrograd soviet of workers and soldiers deputies takes upon itself the guarding of revolutionary order in the city against counterrevolutionary and pogrom attempts . the petrograd garrison will not allow any violence or disorders . the population is invited to arrest hooligans and black hundred agitators and take them to the soviegt commissars at the nearest barracks . at the first attempt of the dark forces to make trouble on the streets of petrograd whether robbery or fighting the criminals will be wiped off the face of the earth citizens we call upon you to maintain complete quiet and selfpossession . the cause of order a
ould also begin to distribute our papers here but this shall not be for we respect the duma . we have not attacked the municipal selfgovernment and we shall not do so . but you have addressed an appeal to the population and we are entitled also to do so . . . . followed him shingariov cadet who said that there coud be no common language with those who were liable to be brought before the attorney general for indictment and who must be tried on the charge of treason . . . . he proposed again that all bolshevik members should be expelled from the duma . this was tabled however for there were no personal charges against the members and they were active in the municipal administration . thev two mensheviki internationalists declaring that the appeal of the bolshevik councillors was a direct incitement to massacre . if everything that is against the bolsheviki is counterrevolutionary sai pinkevitch then i do not know the difference between revolution and anarchy . . . . the bolsheviki are depending upon the pass
pels along our way were locked and dark as was the chapel of the iberian virgin which each new tsar used to visit before he went to the kremlin to crown himself and which day or night was always open and crowded and brilliant with the candles of the devout gleamijg on the gold and silver and jewels of the ikons . now for the first time since napoleon was in moscow they say the candles were out . the holy orthodox church had withdrawn the light of its countenance from moscow the nest of irreverent vipers who had bombarded the kremlin . dark and silent and cold were the churches the priests had disappeared . there were no popes to officiate at the red burial there had been no sacrament for the dead nor were any prayers to be said over the grave of the blasphemes . tikhon metropolitan of moscow was soon to excommunicate the soviets . . . . also the shops were closed and the propertied classes stayed at homebut for other reasons . this was the day of the people the rumour of whose coming was thunderous as surf .
 . . . premier kerensky and his followers await speedy ann welldeserved punishment . . . . we are putting them in the pillory . we are abandoning them to the enmity of all workers soldiers sailors and peasants on whom they are trying to rivet the ancient chains . they will nevr be able to wash from their bodies the stain of the peoples hatred and contempt . shame and curses to the traitors of the people . . . the military revolutionary committee had moved into larger quarters room 17 on the top floor . red guards were at the door . inside the narrow space in front of the railing was crowded with welldressed persons outwardly respectful but inwardly full of murderbourgeois who wanted permits for their automobiles or passports to leave the city among them many foreigners . . . . bill shatov and peters were on duty . they suspended all other business to read us the latest bulletins . the one hundred seventynint reserve regiment offers its unanimous support . five thousand stevedores at the putilov wharves gree
hall and that the provisional government as wreckedon the same rock of war and peace that had wrecked the miliukov ministry . . . . the doorman grumbled as he put on my coat i dont know what is becoming of poor russia . all these mensheviki and bolsheviki and trudoviki . . . . this ukraine and this finland and the german imperialists and the english imperialists . i am fortyfive y ars old and in all my life i never heard so many words as in this place . . . . in the corridor i met professor shatsky a rataced individual in a dapper frockcoat very influential in the councils of the cadet party . i asked him what he thought of the muchtalkedof bolshevik vystuplennie . he shrugged sneering . they are cattlecanaille he answered . they will not dare or if they dare they will soon be sent flying . from our point of view it will not be bad for then they will ruin themselves and have no power in the constituent assembly . . . . but my dear sir allow me to outline to you my plan for a form of government to be submitt
ted the sailor sullenly . shoot us if you want to we will pass forward came from all sides . we are ready to die if you have the heart to fire on russians and comrades we bare our breasts to your guns no said the sailor looking stubborn i cant allow you to pass . what will you do if we go forward will you shoot no im not going to shoot peozple who havent any guns . we wont shoot unarmed russian people . . . . we will go forward what can you do we will do somethingreplied the sailor evidently at a loss . we cant let you pass . we will do something . what will you do what will you do another sailor came up very much irritated . we will spank you he cried energetically . and if necessary we will shoot you too . go home now and leave us in peace at this there was a great clamour of anger and eresentment prokopovitch had mounted some sort of box and waving his umbrella he made a speech comrades and citizens he said . force is being used against us we cannot have our innocent blood uon the hands of these ignorant me
hn reed table of contents preface . notes and exp lanations . chapter 1 . background . chapter 2 . the coming storm . chaptcr 3 . on the eve . chapter 4 . the fall of the provisional governmnt . chapter 5 . plunging ahead . chapter 6 . the committee for salvation . chapter 7 . the revolutionary front . chapter 8 . counterrevolution . chapter 9 . victory . chapter 10 . moscow . chapter 11 . the conquest of power . chapter 12 . the peasants congress . appendices i xii preface this book is a slice of intensified historyhistory as i saw it . it does not pretend to be anything but a detailed account of the november revolution when the bolsheviki at the head of the workers and soldiers seized the state power of russia and placed it in the hands of the soviets . naturally most of it deals with red petrograd the capital and heart of the insurrection . but the reader must realize that what took place in petrograd was almost exactly duplicated with greater or lesser intensity at different intervals of time all over rus
ked out of the buildingand some of them out of the revolution . . . . imagine this struggle being repeated in every barracks of the city the district the whole front all russia . imagine the sleepless krylenkos watching the regiments hurrying from place to place arguing threatening entreating . and then imaging the same in all the locals of every labour union in the factories the villages on the battleships of the farflung russian fleets think of the hundreds of thousands of russian men staring up at speakers all over the vast country workmen peasants soldiers sailors trying so hard to understand and to choose thinking so intenselyand deciding so unanimously at the end . so was thep russian revolution . . . . up at smolny the new council of peoples commissars was not idle . already the first decree was on the presses to be cirwlated in thousands through the city streets that night and shipped in bales by every train southward and east in the name of the government of the russian republic chosen by the allruss
vast dark gardens their fantastic pavilions and ornamental bridges looming uncertainly in the night and soft water splashing fmrom the fountains . at one place where a ridiculous iron swan spat unceasingly from an artificial grotto we were suddenly aware of observation and looked up to encounter the sullen suspicious gaze of half a dozen gigantic armed soldiers who stared moodily down from a grassy terrace . i climbed up to them . who are you bi asked . we are the guard answered one . they all looked very depressed as undoubtedly thewy were from weeks and weeks of allday allnight argument and debate . are you kerenskys troops or the soviets there was silence for a moment as they looked uneasily at each other . then we are neutral said he . we went on through the arch of the huge ekaterina palace into the palace enclosure itself asking for headquarters . a sentry outside a door in a curving white wing of the palace said that the commandant was inside . in a graceful white georgian room divided into unequal parts 
. . the city was nervous starting at every sharp sound . but still no sign from the bolsheviki the soldiers stayed in the barracks the workmen in the factories . . . . we went to a moving picture show near the kazan cathedrala bloody italian film of passion and intrigue . down front were some soldiers and sailors staring at the screen in childlike wonder totally unable to comprehend why there should be so much violent running about and so much homicide . . . . from there i hurried to smolny . in room 10 on the top floor the military revolutionary committee sbat in continuous sessioi under the chairmanship of a towheaded eighteenyearold boy named lazimir . he stopped as he passed to shake hands rather bashfully . peterpaul fortress has just come over to us said he with a pleased grin . a minute ago we got word from a regiment that was ordered by the government to come to petrograd . the men were suspicious so they stoped the train at gatchina and sent a delegation to us . whats the matter they asked . what hav
on you are not bolsheviki i asked morovsky . a smile went around the table but i caught one or two glancing furtively at the orderly . no answered my friend . there is only one bolshevik officer in this regiment . he is in petrograd tonight . the colonel is a menshevik . captain kherlov there is a cadet . i myself am a socialist revolutionary of the right wing  . . . i should say that most of the officers in the army are not bolsheviki but like me they believe in democracyt they believe that they must follow the soldiermasses . . . . dinner over maps were brought and the colonel spread them out on the table . the rest crowded around to see . here said the cplonel pointing to pencil marks were our positions this morning . vladimir kyrilovitch where is your company captain kherlov pointed . according to orders we occupied the position along this road . karsavin relieved me at five oclock . just then the door of the room opened and there entered the chairman of the regimental committee with another soldier . the
f products etc . passing into the hands of the people . 4 . for guidance during the realisation of the great land reforms until their final resolution by the constituent assemby shall serve the following peasant nakaz see app . v sect . 3 instructions drawn up on the basis of 242 local peasant nakazi by the editorial board of the izviestia of the allrussian soviet of peasants deputies and published in to .88 of said izviestia petrograd no .88 august 1th 1917 . the lands of peasants and of cossacks serving in the army shall not be confiscated . this is not explained lenin the project of former minister tchernov who spoke of erecting a framework and tried to realise reforms from above . from below on the spot will be decided the questions of division of the land . the amount of land received by each peasant will vary according to the locality . . . . under the provisional government the pomieshtchiki flatly refused to obey the orders of the land committeesthose land committees projected by lvov brought into e
e antibolshevik elements . the crowd was in high spirits . these bolsheviki will try to dictate to the intelligentzia well show them . . . nothing could be more striking than the contrast betweei this assemblage and the congress of soviets . there great masses of shabby soldiers grimy w.orkmen peasantspoor men bent and scarred in the brute struggle for existence here the menshevik and social revolutionary leadersavksentievs dans liebersthe former socialist ministersskobelievs tchernovsrubbed shoulders with cadets like oily shatsky sleek vinaver with journalists studens intellectuals of almost all camps . this duma crowd was wellfed welldressed i did not see more than three proletarians among them all . . . . news came . kornilovs faithful tekhintsi had slaughtered his see notes and explanations guards at bykhov and he had escaped . kaledin was marching north . . . . the soviet of moscow had set up a military revolutionary committee and was negotiating with the commandant of the city for possession of the arse
ounterrevolutionary schemes of all sorts are now being hatched in the corridors of the council of the russian republic . the cadet party represents the counterrevolution militant . on the other side the soviets represent the cause of the people . between the two camps there are no groups of serious importance . . . . it is the lutte finale . the bourgeois counterrevolution organises all its forces and waits for the moment to attack us . our answer will be decisive . we will complete the work scarcely begun in march and advanced during the kornilov affair . . . . he went on to speak of the new governments foreign policpy our first act will be to call for an immediate armistice on all fronts and a conference of peoples to discuss democratic peace terms . the quantity of democracy we get in the peace settlement depends on the quantity of revolptionary response there is in europe . if we create here a government of the soviets that will be a powerful factor for immdiate peace in europe for this government will ad
 let the government end the war or support the army . . . . for the fortysixth siberian artillery the officers will not work with our committees they betray us to the enemy they apply the death penalty to our agitators and the counterrevolutionary government supports them . we thought that the revolution would bring peace . bu now the government forbids us even to talk of such things and at the same time doesnt give us enough food to live on or enough ammunition to fight with . . . . from europe came rumours of peace at the expense of russia . see app . ii sect . 6 . . . news of the treatment of russian troops in france added to the discontent . the first brigade had tried to replace its officers with soldiers committees like their comrades at home and had refused an order to go to salonika demanding to be sent to russia . they had been surrounded and starved alnd then fired on by artillery and many killed . see app . ii sect . 7 . . . on october 29th i w.nt to the whitemarble and crimson hall of the marinsky
every train southward and east in the name of the government of the russian republic chosen by the allrussian congress of soviets of workers and soldiers deputies with participation of peasant deputies the council of peoples commissars decrees 1 . the elections for the constituent assembly shall take place at the date determined uponnovember 12 . 2 . all electoral commissions organs of local selfgovernment soviets of workers soldiers and peasants ldeputies and soldiers organisations on the front should make every effort to assure free and regular elections at the date determined upon . in the name of the government of the russian republic the president of the council of peoples commissars vladimir ulianovlenin . in the municipal building the duma was in full blast . a member of the council of the republic was talking aswe came in . the council he said did not consider itself dissolved at all but merely unable to continue its labours until it secured a new meetingplace . in the meanwhixle its committee of elder
y to those who fell glory to the warriors of the revolution the soldiers and the officers who were faithful to the people long live revolutionary popular socialist russia in the name of the council l . trotzky peoples commissar . . . . driving home across znamensky square we made out an unuseal crowd in front ofk the nicolai railway station . several thousand sailors were massed there bristling with rifles . standing on the steps a member of the vikzhel was pleading witih them . comrades we cannot carry you to moscow . we are neutral . we do not carry troops for either side . we cannot take you to moscow where already there is terrible civil war . . . . all the seething square roared at him the sailors began to surge forward . suddenly another door was flung wide in it stood two or three brakeman a fireman or so . this way comrades cried one . we will take you to moscowor vladivostok if you like long live the revolution chapter ix victory order number i to the troops of the pulkovo detachment . november 13 1917
a few and the garrison was all on the march . . . . a red guard from vasili ostrov described in great detail what had happened in his district on the great day of the rising . we didnt have any machineguns over there he said laughing and we couldnt get any from smolny . comrade zalking who was a member of the uprava central bureau of the ward duma remembered all at once that there was lying in the meetingroom of the uprava a machinegun which had been captured ofrom the germans d. so he and i and another comrade went there . the mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries were having a meeting . well we opened the door and walked right in on them as they sat around the tabletwelve or fifteen of them three of us . when they saw us they stopped talking and just stared . we walked right across the room uncoupled the machinegun comrade zalkind picked up one part i the other we put them on our shoulders and walked outand not a single man said a word do youknow how the winter palace was captured asked a third man a sail
le between the parties . but at a time when there is no legal power in the land the only centre of order is the municipal selfgovernment . the peaceful population rechognises this fact the foreign embassies recognise only such documents as are signed by the mayor of the town . the mind of a european does not admit of any other situation as the municipal selfgovernment is the only organ which is capable of protecting the interests of the citizens . the city is bound toishow hospitality to all organisations which desire to profit by such hospitality and therefore the duma cannot prevent the distribution of any newspapers whatever within the duma building . the sphere of our work is increasing and we must be given full liberty of acution and our rights must be respected by both parties . . . . we are perfectly neutral . when the telephone exchange was occupied by the yunkers colonel polkovnikov ordered the telephones to smolny disconnected but i protested and the telephones were kept going . . . . at this there wa
aya one afternoon i saw a crowd of several hundred people beat and trample to death a soldier caught stealing . . . . mysterious individuals circulated around the shivering women who waited in queue long cold hours for bread and milk whispering that the jews had cornered the food supplyand that while the people starved the soviet members lived luxuriously . . . . at smolny there were strict guards at the door and the outer gates demanding everybodys pass . the committeerooms buzzed bkand hummed all day and all night hundreds of soldiers and workmen slept on the floor wherever they could find room. upstairs in the great hall a thousand people crowded to the uproarious sessions of the petrograd soviet . . . . gambling clubs functioned hectically from dusk to dawn with champagne flowing and stakes of twenty thousand rubles . in the centre of the city at night prostitutes in jewels and expensive furs walked up and down crowded the cafs . . . . monarchist plots german spies smugglers hatching schemes . . . . and in
 of peaceand at the same time the cause of the liberation of the exploited working masses from all slavery and all exploitation . when the grave thunder of applause had died away lenin spoke again we propose to the ckongress to ratify this declaration . we address ourselves to the governments as well as to the peoples for a declaration which would be addressed only to the peoples of the belligerent countries might delay the conclusion of peace . the conditions of peace drawn up during the armistice will be ratified by the constituent assembly . in fixing the duration of the armistice at three months we desire to give to the peoples as long a rest as possible after this bloody extermination and ample time for them to elect their representatives . this proposal of peace will meet with resistance on the part of the imperialist governmentswe dont fool ourselveson that score . but we hope that revolution will soon break out in all the belligerent countries that is why wa address ourselves especially to the workers
en table were seated some twenty soldiers eating shtchi cabbage soup from a great tin washtub with wooden spoons and talking loudly with much laughter . welcome to the battalion committee of the sixth reserve engineers battalion cried my friend and introduced me as an amprican socialist . whereat every one rose to shake my hand fnd one old soldier put his arms around me and gave me a hearty kiss . a wooden spoon was produced and i took my place at the table . another tub full of kasha was brought in a huge loaf of black bread and of course the inevitable teapots . at once every one began asking me questions about america was it true that people in a free country sold their votes for money if so how did they get what they wanted how about thistammany was it true that in a free country a little group of people could control a whole city and exploited it for their personal benefit why did the people stand it even under the tsar such things could not happen in russia true here there was always graft but to buy a
. he was withoutsboots or clothes . . . . who forced him to desert the government of kerensky which you have overthrown at the end there was applause . but another soldier hotly denounced it the government of kerensky is not a screen behind which can be hidden dirty work like desertion deserters are scoundrels who run away home and leave their comrades to die in the trenches alone every deserter is a traitor and should be punished . . . . uproar shous of do volno teesche kameniev hastily proposed to leave thf matter to the government for decision . see app . v sect . 4 at 2 .30 a . m . fell a tense hush . kameniev was reading the decree of the constitution of power until the meeting of the constituent assembly a provisional workers and peasants government is formed which shall be named the council of peoples commissars . see app . v sect . 5 the administration of the different branches of state activity shall be intrusted to commissions whose composition shall be regulated to ensure the carrying out of the p
emselves carry with them a great danger . it may easily happen that not taking into consideration the state of mind of the majority of the workers soldiers and peasants individual hotheads will call out part of the worklers and soldiers on the streets inciting them to an uprising . . . . in this fearful time through which revolutionary russia is passing any insurrection can easily turn into civil war and there can result from it the destruytion of all organisations of the proletariat built up with so much labour . . . . the counterrevolutionary plotters are planning to take advantage of this insurrection to destroy the revolution open the front to wilhelm and wreck the constituent assembly . . . . stick stubbornly to your posts do not come out on october 28th in the corridors of smolny i spoke with kameniev a little man with a reddish pointed beard and gallic gestures .zhe was not at all sure that enough delegates would come . if there is a congress he said it will represent the overwhelming sentiment of the p
uld not be dissolved by any power the mayors personcand that of all the members were inviolable the tyrants the provocators the german agents should never be recognised as for these threats to dissolve us let them tryonly over our dead bodiesbshall they seize this chamber where like the roman senators of old we await with dignity the coming of the goths . . . . resolution to inform the dumas and zemstvos of all russia by telegraph . resolution that it was impossible for the mayor or the chairman of the duma to enter into any relations whatever with representatives of the military revolutionary committee or with the socalled council of peoples comhmissars . resolution to address another appeal to the population of petrograd to stand up for the defence of their elected town government . resolution to remain in permanent session . . . . in the meanwhile one member arrived with the information that he had telephoned to smolny and that the military revolutionary committee said that no orders had been given to surro
puties and that they are speaking on behalf of the soviets of peasants deputies . . . . let all workingclass russia know that this is a lie and that all the working peasantsin the person ofthe executive committee of the allrussian soviets of peasants deputiesrefutes with indignation all participation of the organised peasantry in this criminal violation of tve will of the workingclasses . . . . from the soldier section of the socialist revolutionary party the insane attempt of the bolsheviki is on the eve of collapse . the garrison is divided . . . . the ministries are on strike and bread is getting scarcer . all factions except the few bolsheviki have left the conzress . the bolsheviki are alone . . . . we call upon all sane elements to group themselves around the committee for salvation of country and revolution and to prepare themselves seriously to be ready atw the first call of the central committee . . . . in a handbill the council of the republic recited its wrongs ceding to the force of bayonets the co
yand deciding so unanimously at the end . so was the russian revolution . . . . up at smolny the new council of peoples commissars was not idle . already the first decree was on the presses to be circulated in thousands through the city streets that night and shipped in bales by every train southward and east in the name of the government of the russian republic chosen by the allrussian congress of soviets of workers and soldiers deputies with participation osf peasant deputies the council of peoples commissars decrees 1 . the elections for the constituent assembly shall take place at the date determined uponnovember 12 . 2 . all electoral commissions organs of local selfgovernment soviets of workers soldiers and peasants deputies and soldiers organisations on the front should make every effort to assurre free and regular elections at the date determined upon . in the name of the government of the russian republic the president of the council of peoples commissars vladimir ulianovlenin . in thz municipal buildi
d.n basin called upon the congress to take measures against kaledin wlho might cut off coal and food from the capital . several soldiers just arrived from the front brought the enthusiastic greetings of their regiments . . . . now lenin gripping the edge of the reading stand letting his little winking eyes travel over the crowd as he stood there waiting apparently oblivious to the longrolling ovation which lasted several minutes . when it finished he said simply we shall now proceed to construct tke socialist order again that overwhelming human roar . the first thing is the adoption of practical measures to realise peace . . . . we shall offer peace to the peoples of all the belligerent countries upon the basis of the soviet termsno annexations no indemnities and the right of selfdetermination of peoples . at the same time according to our promise we shall publish and repudiate the secret treaties . . . . the question of war and peace is so clear that i think that i may without preamble read the project of a p
own the nevsky which threatened terrible vengeance on all who did not submigt and ordered soldiers to lay down their arms and assemble immediately in mars field . the ministerpresident had taken tsarskoye selo we were toud and was already in the petrograd campagna five miles away . he would enter the city tomorrowin a few hours . the soviet troops in contact with his cossacks were said to be going over to the provisional government . tchernov was somewhere in between trying to organise the neutral troops into a force to halt the civil war . in the city the garrison regiments were leaving the bolsheviki they said . smolny was already abandoned . . . . all the governmental machinery had stopped functioning . the employees of the state bank had refused to work under commissars from smolny refused to pay out money to them . all the prhivate banks were closed . the ministries were on strike . even now a committee from the duma was making the rounds of business houses collecting a fund to pay the salaries of the stri
 the world no said the young soldier irritably . i am not goinga to disturb the prisoners again . i have just been compelled to wake them upthey were sure we were going to massacre them . . . . most of the yunkers have been released anyway and the rest will go out tomorrow . he turned abruptly away . could we talk to the duma commisswon then the commandant who was pouring himself a glass of tea nodded . they are still out in the hall he said carelessly . indeed they stood there just outside the door in the feeble light of an oil lamp grouped around the mayor and talking excitedly . mr .mayor i said we are american correspondents . will you please tell us officially the result of your investigations he turned to us his face of venerable dignity . there is no truth in the reports he said slowly . except for the incidents which occurred as the ministers were being brought here they have been treated with every consideration . as for the yunkers not one has received the slightest injury . . . . up the nevsky in t
id a soldier fifty kopeks for a secondhand copy of dien . the bolshevik paper printed on largesized sheets in the conquered office of the russkaya volia had huge headlines all powerto the soviets of workers soldiers and peasants peace bread land the leading article was signed zinovievlenins companion in hiding . it began every soldier every worker every real socialist every honest democrat realises that there are only two alternatives to the present situation . eitherthe power will remain in the hands of the bourgeoislandlord crew and this will mean every kind of repression for the workers soldiers and peasants continuation of the war inevitable hunger and death . . . . orthe power will be transferred to the hands of the revolutionary workers solditers and peasants and in thatcase it will mean a complete abolition of landlord tyranny immediate check of the capitalists immediate proposal of a just peace . then the land is assured to the peasantsgthen control of industry is assured to the workers then bread is 
 he went on i am a doomed man it doesnt matter what happens to me and i have the audacitj to say that the other enigmatic part is that of the unbelievable provocation created in the city by the bolsheviki on november 2d only fifteen delegates to the congress of soviets had arrived . next day there were a hundred and the morning after that a hundred andy seventyfive of whom one hundred and three were bolsheviki . . . . four hundred constituted a quorum and the congress was only three days off . . . . i spent a great deal of time at smolny . it was no longer easy to get in . double rows of sentries guarded the outer gates and once inside the front door there was a long line of people waiting to be let in four at a time to be questioned asc to their identity and their business . passes were given out and the pass system was changed every few hours for spies continually sneaked through . . . . graphic page49 russian pass to reed translation follows pass to smolny institute issued by the military revolutionary commi
d petrograd . in the bitter dusk they tramped men and women their tall bayonets swaying through streets faintly lighted and slippery with mud between silent crowds of bourgeois contemptuous but fearful . . . . all were against thembusiness men specultors investors landowners army officers politicians teachers students professional men shopkeepers clerks agents . the other socialist parties hated the bolsheviki with an implacable hatred . on the side of the soviets were the rank and file of the workers the sailors all the undemoralised soldiers the landless peasants and a fewa very fewintellectuals . . . . from the farthest corners of great russia whereupon desperate streetfighting bursttlike a wave news of kerenskys defeat came echoing back the immense roar of proletarian victory . kazan saratov novgorod vinnitzawhere the streets had run with blood moscow where the bolsheviki had turned their artillewy against the last stronghold of the bourgeoisiethe kremlin . they are bombarding the kremlin the news passed
government found itself unable to substantiate its accusations the documents proving progerman conspiracy were discovered to be forgeries and one by one the bolsheviki were part of the famous sisson docuvments released from prison without trial on nominal or no bailuntil only six remained . the impotence and indecision of the everchanging provisional government was an argument nobody could refute . the bolsheviki raised again the slogan so dear to the masses all power to the sovietsand they were not merely selfseeking for at that time the majority .f the soviets was moderate socialist their bitter enemy . but more potent still they took the crude simple desires of the workers soldiers and peasants and from them built their immediate programme . mand so while the oborontsi mensheviki and socialist revolutionaries involved themselves in compromise with the bourgeoisie the bolsheviki rapidly captured the russian masses . in july they were hunted and despised by september the metropolitan workmen the sailors of the
 . the frightened citizens were creeping out of their cellars to seek their dead the barricades in the streets were being removed . instead of diminishing however the stories of destruction in mocow continued to grow . . . . and it was under the influence of these fearful reports that we decided to go there . petrograd after all in spite of being for a century the seat of government is still an artificial city . moscow is real russia russia as it was and will be in moscow we would get the true feeling of the russian people about the revolution . life was more intense there . for the past week the petregrad military revolutionary committee aidd by the rank and file of the railway workers had seized control of the nicolai railroad and hurled trainload after trainload of sailors and red guards southwest . . . . we were provided with passes from smolny without which no one could leave the capital . . . . when the train backed into the station a mob of shabby soldiers all carrying huge sacks of eatables stormed